i can take no note of time some part of some light the person of its agency, in the responsibility of night noise and neighboring near, but not to the objects seen near to the sights themselves then of sounds not ears near to the subjects that veer in swoon, that perfect balance of the head memories are most easily made in books the many densities are dependent on all other surrounding densities but only a woman could have thought it womanhood expressing anger and sex, then dream and sleep many times i began to write my memories, writing but not from memory a support, another across the floor from me is the overhead there is a noise what is there is?
nothing but english the body continent which is snug or a peach the peach teaches thuds the thuds i might want to think a punch to streets or trees no not streets, thoughts measuring air the airs split over and over tips twigs are the many sounds of life the fight in each word maintaining its thing and out comes a bridge between justice and necessity ghost and jealous mother the moon can only be seen from one side, this one death is like the sun, my friend said, you can't look at it between the cells of we who sublimate and come back gaps rain i am thinking so before my eyes no, behind them animals don't have names who said they should have names?
their suffering is invisible it's reflective to be eye catching and ascend the precipitation my sensitivity to light at night exacerbating my sense of sound we have only the sound of the crickets for self tapping on the sand sucking like the insect i really have no ignorance but twilight and lunatic speed getting into the pale bed supported by that balance of the head pressure raises praises, praises ashes words are joined together in a word the composition of the consciousness of being the self enjoying sex in a state as a windsock is the eye sharp is the eye not an orifice belonging to eyes they are composed between darkness and pleasure enjoying six a man and a woman exceeding themselves by half again there are three persons’ hands a concave shadow casts the fingers close toward the sun i can imagine what might work to light the obvious a zone which is the sleep where dream remains it fills with life just one side of it only the sight of her front and own feet because she has short memory humans accumulate innumerable reminders to compensate for their short memories and time is glamorous too somehow everything is real.
and we to see its brilliancy.
in mind but light to which so much adhered where is the sleep which dream retains one thinks about the money one could learn and can't keep silent a science of night in outer space but they doubt if they never thought of readers life shall be larger than our dreams and with peripheries little clusters of buds of a dazzling white there was something abrupt about the close of a cheerful sentence that in the room in which they all spoke together that manner of dwelling on words i could make modifications make idiots and that's to make a solitude which is relentless but now habit has come to take me in her arms and carry me to bed in the morning it was i alone who loved i analyzed it, i spelled it a person has an estranged empathy, not relinquishing but putting itself, on the windowsill, assessing can we say so?
its condition with feelers as the bug there a nightmare in a failure of, returning the opposite of being recognized is not being unrecognized but being odious a person wanting to be no one with the impossibility of acting on its jealousy i had a dream in which my suitcase the bulletproof one was chained to the ceiling of a ferry and they wouldn't wait for me so i was really angry having that experience which always speaks of itself in the newspaper there is contiguity between news of the space craft voyager's views of neptune and a public viewing of the saint's body in open casket not herself how solid there was a spy intruding in my surroundings, and i scarcely answered when someone spoke to me it is amorous to be seen and to be kind so when i see a page of words i plan them well, if it were russian?
because we have a different history of significance our person occurs on a different scale her potential largeness the bulk of a pedestrian and her swollen legs and feet which she enlarges so as to diminish a terrifying place the skull thickens with age the nail pierces her head she set in a landscape of light around the domestic interiors of agoraphobes it is leningrad to be submerged let us say that it was taking place in realism that language itself is partially so and the self a reflexive form, receiving reassurance despite finitude none of it seeming to know which direction it was going in quotes i'm not the center of what i don't know we will become good by doing no harm?
it's a lie.
a person no longer so well defined a work of art conducive to subjectivity the specificity of a certain amount of a giant and maintaining something slightly below the standard temperature after mutilation it would have lost some of its sewn discretion walks to the window space is seductive having sex in a state there's no music in poetry but there's rhyme time individualized, bouncing, the time is like life i've been sleeping like something drugged in the dark from eleven to four immobile, hot, not caught, with dreams committed there are real things to be repeated i don't want to move and think i've had enough to eat so that was the problem, food a table, two russian men, and a great tough goose we think of beauty we lose a battle.
we are very cruel you should enjoy your suffering.
realizations come in the form of words if not before.
arguments weaken the facts which in any event never mattered, or existed.
you die as what you are.
write bread lines.
you don't test the limits of what is by asking the impossible of it.
bunny haunches.
and it should go on from there as if everything had happened.
the culture made a decision.
i am a mortal verb.
i am asking you, quietly, for you.
it's nice to see a face.
maybe something happens that mutes the speechless.
there's no way to recall a clarity.
leached passions only overtake the heart.
don't go looking for it.
the language.
this sex could be our quiet lullaby.
all we ever do is fulfill our fantasies.
by inference, for my closest friends there must be at that level some instruct ion or is it just instinct the way the moth tries so hard and rhythmically to free itself from the web.
for me i just knew where the place was even though i had no idea what the word meant or if in any way it could be limited.
don't we already understand the sides of the driveway?
you're forced to assume a persona in your job.
which part of it writes for you?
how big is it?
what did you bring it up for?
why do you rub it in?
almost the only thing you can discover in that state are elements of new forms.
literature, so boyish really, and a little silly.
this leaf is death.
it's not nothing.
it's an illusion.
and in your case it's trapped in a thought.
one must wake to make oneself understood after silence so long, a pulse still beats under the skin.
you opened eyes that saw along with others’ false opinions common to all that unconscious observe life unfold a surface of lines and colors imitating everything under the sun to the end of someone's delectation.
without light nothing is visible.
without a transparent medium nothing is visible, and nothing unlimited is visible either.
without color nothing is visible.
nothing is visible except in the distance, and without an instrument nothing is visible.
noble subject, of naked matter made with no quality of artifice strewn upon it from a worker's hand.
destiny must conduct our placement ornament, decor and realism its judgment must be everywhere.
how well you knew to light the lamp, and where the switch was on the wall who knew how to switch off the lamp, when to pour oil in the basin, and illumine the room with lamplight glow.
and how much more you knew i could say too, but to endeavor my crown with strong attentions from below, these days i don't feel well afterwards, peering down shamefully upon vicissitude, when around me meritorious minds contemporary range their valorous and friendly saturnian stars.
master of the rising sound, improve your words improvise in view of the pendulum, and correct your words.
master of the convex view, do i not serve you well?
vermilion glue hardens into an urban street.
master of furnace number one now what whom when will you burn?
autumnal climate stuns a body, tumbling past the family marsh.
master of the lingering memory gauze thickens, you falter to a wall.
an opaque minister imagines, cruising our broken streets, the golden vectors of its scum are rust.
a lingering veil thins a haltering nexus went blank.
master of the cave called cement your arms on thirsty sands were meant to lose their bead, and dirty deeds were meant to cower under cover of your hands.
master of forgottenness, sir honk and shudder go to him roman language, whose perfume rises from our age.
master of barren thoughts, words are less foreign than you’d thought.
as the observers eye no more than black car passing in tropical traffic, so silently we enter the subconscious bar together we drink the terror of our eyes, unauthored noises that rend our foreign tongue.
his phobic, master of the alley, only thought is less foreign than your words.
sometimes did you know?
people, wild, careen.
if in the depths of a warlike people you owe survival to wicked spirits warning you to seize the occasion to escape deadly contagion, by taking another mad rush at the good and the bad words lingering heatedly within objections to traditional sacrifice, diffuse excess, unconsidered immunity against everything you say when would this desolate impulse limit this adamant world to the scope of your assumption.
when would you write what you would read of the sequence of all sexes rigorously reasoned from the secrets of great premises for what was a true penalty and what was far and wide definition inheriting but that this is words for a fraction of a better word is not merely lost, it's bound to the mouth blessed with a body administered by the nature of words determined to be true.
how else can you write in someone's own words?
or invest them with sublime expedients of abandon cautiously preventing all that stuff that all this is fresh withhold talking and doing no harm and note that leaves disproportionate portions of writers with monstrous words in the womb.
and that couplets loose in a stanza on the ways of wars accept piles of letters heavy with accessible sounding leanings whose powers i may now distrust.
in order to be in the books, loved for each letter in a word overflowing with the problems of poems poets see more books at the same time.
they see parts of the world assigned to poets inspiring male material with a male name and justice of the order of power in the will dominating bodies in the same condition.
they imagine you've just been told you can't be trusted, and that the world presents genetic intimacies no longer loved for torments represented in republican neglect.
this plight of the face of the earth that you reach through my senses adapts the time of your life to when wild words sigh.
this forbidding evidence of reckless life dominates a consequence of projection like lust preceding a deliberation yielding to my next purpose which is something different in discoveries of fragmentary men put together in an embarrassment separating the estrous instance from someone's sobering love.
if that's a meaning making process that unbuckles english six to ten times a day in the safety of our steel bodies ready for excitement the people you train to take place stop being taught.
a stand in for the symbolic being probably here, complicated by saving my life, acquires episodic reason to leave the end of the past to an animation with which people will their presence on an atom of all places.
sometimes when i'm writing wounded, dead, ambitiously deciding to be jealous of the way i dressed myself last night i become thought of in the revels and rituals for improving links through the loveliest universals, the kind that complete a delinquency that suits you, the kind that rub a little unity in your dust and radiate some essential to attention leniently imposing the beginning on the past.
two figures walk along the beach who, because of their remarkable clothing, expose and withdraw themselves at the same time.
two figures who walk along the beach because of their odd appearance give the impassion of being foreign clothing.
because of their odd appearance they give the impression of being foreign bodies on the beach.
because they expose and withdraw themselves at a remarkable time they deprive the scene of easy comprehensibility.
something mysterious and unfathomable deprives the scene of easy comprehensibility and thereby closes it off from the viewer in a singular way.
something foreign deprives the man lying on his back of our gaze.
he draws our unfathomable wave to his face, chest and beach.
to the left we have a man lying on his back with legs stretched high and arms tossed behind his head being washed onto the beach by a wave.
to the icons he forms something of a viewer in a singular way and thereby closes the scene being washed onto the beach.
two bulky wooden devices float in the water.
two bulky wooden devices float in the water.
he forms something of a barrier in front of the two women who, like icons, look as though they had been unselfconsciously captured in a photograph.
he draws the two women with legs stretched high and arms frozen in time.
the blind man blows his horn as if possessed, and grinds his organ even though there is no one who could reward his efforts.
the psychic doll grinds his horn even though they are all physical.
they are all cripples, physical or psychic, and the doll congratulates them sardonically.
they are unpretentious and without fear.
her left arm congratulates them outward.
blue eyed and naive, she sits in wonder and without fear, unpretentious and open, her left arm extends its palm turned outward.
blue eyed purpose grimly extends its palm.
they themselves seem least conscious of the purpose for which they are grimly expending their energies.
they themselves trying to climb their energies.
the sailor least conscious of the stumps, a ladder by means ceiling.
the man in the sailor suit is trying to climb, by means of his arm stumps, a ladder which leads only to the ceiling where he is about to bump his head.
the man is only a masked situation, a macabre ball.
the actual situation is macabre, for the masked ball is awaited joylessly and in oppressive silence.
the actual sailor is awaited joylessly, for the head is a climb in oppressive silence.
drift.
as in any activity you make it.
they tried over the kitchen fire with oars and old clothes.
going filled by smoke.
volume, nylon, or from akron to sioux falls, sometimes.
very light span powered by burning leaves.
passengers.
tried duck, sheep and rooster.
any rips.
we just came from.
shape of container holding languages that fallout of use.
before king and queen webbing will not run to find different directions.
psychological from above.
a marquis at three hundred feet.
accommodated small use rotting meat.
two french paper makers with basket attached our own artificially heightened response to real estate.
spectators where the wind goes as mail carrier, larger than per person.
propaganda will not support a flame nor the advent of a fascination.
tough and reusable.
number of available parking places in a film or television series.
addressing oneself on a return envelope.
female ascent from loins.
serious means transportation for many weather conditions cost what they are made of.
the average, safe in modern familiar.
morning gone metric.
to tip the velvet.
a cautionary saturation.
even for the optimist in clean clothes.
paper elderly satisfied kelp.
sear.
ripples a torture for those who count slowly.
radar or not hear it comes.
shuttle.
event dries on the paint's downtime.
else double dusk.
yellow fever opposite care.
nymph on a sampan nirvana audits until tigress.
man over.
the tines of a fork.
then drink by word of mouth himself.
saltcellar sarcasm.
all pleasure all dome.
grindstone to wholesale exhaust.
kennel loose jet.
nonchalance an esculent tedium.
dental evasion just for a whisper.
fretwork.
as normal goes nomad.
leech.
before deaths and secular venture, always there, and before, the stroke of her richness.
pallor changes in the unclean eye now figural fright in the safe question.
what flame harbors forth?
the invisible aperture hardly so enigmatic, and, beyond nihilation i know i for when lover as if.
can a mutual term suppose willing euphoria?
a low call in doubt fjord.
limited to frosty touch and the conceit of token regard.
there she feels the warmth of conjecture the amiable filth of downtown so trite a physic silent as if geometry were sanctified among us.
you?
scarcely ae to the hopeless gleam of day.
caresses and crystals in time.
left eternal loss echoing.
no gift strung on the immortal string sunset the solemn melody.
my father, leave us here.
who wills and restores molecular transiency?
with fear and abhorrence, we abandon him there, with lone care of the forwarding, there without any place of semblance.
the word utopia designates a step beyond human nature yet not devoid of human characteristics as if humanity were a species that admitted at the interior of its logical space its extension a total rupture as if, in moving toward the other man, one transcended the human.
and as if the utopian were not the lot of some accursed wandering, but rather the clearing in which man shows himself.
flesh risen a tablature outside the crisis.
her kinesis is variant, flung forum of and measured silence.
can you listen time's denial, speech if music?
the pure litany is breached the parody of ruin.
he walks across there, bright with the reach of solitude.
whiskey water his one thing.
i follow undeniably cut through with pierced side.
what struck pilgrim, what juicy orange.
near a patch of astroturf the beautiful geraniums up the small cement steps, the bulbs blooming according to season.
i look up to see a stranger passing.
i tend to find it impossible to discover what i mean.
redundancy prognosis.
put some water under the bridge.
you remember you had wanted to write it down.
generic cartoon coach.
the first transfer point's been reached.
a stray drop.
the elder did not know where the younger ed.
a long conditioned response to summer song's soft grass generates aroma.
cloud goes behind the sun's shadow.
kite flying's art.
big fathers in distress.
a person which was given you taped on.
who's so deranged as to consider it.
evidence, close by, of a quarrel, ongoing, which never really happened.
tenacity missing.
i reelect to belong here.
someone's got nature very near their homes.
the tenderness and ambiguity come round.
maybe they seem to be taking turns at that.
it goes along alphabetically.
how many people, when they read that, crouch down to see if that's the way they do it too?
lines in her bra show fully under the beige silk blouse pulled tight.
iron mike's fighting mad.
the dead heat settles, in the city the ramps are all showing and the vegetation, guiding individuals into place.
planning picnics years in advance.
grown white women in cute sailor outfits.
think of it as in chunks.
not a journal that tries to write its own book.
i listen for a while then i stop listening, at some point.
words going loudly into the air coalesce.
the rain the only object to break the heat.
the object the historical watering hole might then designate a certain, a window shield, a stone, and who knows, might hit it.
the emphasis on the impact is misplaced.
when i squash down my eyelids.
the wait for bad reception.
moist sun effervesces.
miniature ferries docking.
in the complete darkness, pipes but not specific pipes, moans but not specific moans, a shortness of breath.
the grains of my eyes see things differently.
full to dipping in the river.
scratchiness of the air trying to work.
riding alongside me on the wing are the rivets themselves.
lateral and jugular inconsistencies.
there are notes still called bad bulging, all rusty iron read, like any limit we excite in stone.
in the center the field sleeps well, sleeps wide, a deep structure which names foretold.
the edge around rock and hill adorned the decadence.
then crowd presented form where successive girdles hasp.
such images emanate from escarpment.
there are crossings outward crossing, inward tracked.
downed well the cakes truncate collection.
base cling bank ditch crisscross, shaken trembling whiteness seen below.
there we find ourselves, left of poetry, slightly hind ward.
to the right was ordinary hardship, its ditched chassis tom mentality.
below the synergetic side of middle, naked faces stared the other side, largely disappeared.
roaming jubilant, great throng the cause, means over people bridge so that one side, then the other, lodged in apartments simply terminally, then let go toward the mounting.
how you made me raise my legs at stroke, and i could not wait a second to be one there.
my eyes were met by the translation as they went, and the cognates were recognized.
stones were ugly scourges demanded smiting.
look at the ground you fiercely back upon.
art will not vindicate its rack.
former worlds compel to do that wills unseemly sound to jerk in us.
i am not the only one who spells this equinox.
the place is so full of mothering slang, no one knows to stop to learn the language.
sip saying somewhere between des-moines and reno and if you desire to be assured, remember that very heat was born in us.
demand a mote to win the dash, then pander away.
for women are not here to coin, men not here to spend this colonized, this synthetic clay.
escort rejoinder with estate and come few steps to process deed to camber.
cite convexity of part, agree to bend thereto.
tum right rigged and so on, to quit the lateral round.
when parts reach yearning rescue, stop awhile and let the book of it warm.
little born things will face the scene, they go along with us.
if the texture justifies the reach, courage will subsequently review the train, ancient and likewise glance worthy.
then master hard come punctuate the wind, heightened upon the moon as sequel.
queen and aspect yet retain what dopes sign and sell.
token death saps merciless qualities men and women ward.
and there with their farewells the young deceive the rest.
cycles in hip and stance pregnant their bell like words.
middle valences voice practice like deceit.
gaze specula meaning of that which is devoured, when feeling such alone could then be held, like the sound of undergrowth.
we are across the further bank already and have its buttress for another arch, beyond the pommeling.
crusted fascicles concrete vapors nose to bottom, the fold avoidance of instant chartering.
whilst i am in an eye search, evacuated persons collect enameled privacy.
i hold one globe above the filth, another peering to allay the clerk, to yellow bathing daylight.
while prominent whites of lucky term still murmur e, they beat their pates and eye dry haired the rest, sunk in flattery.
this made me to think you knew dishevelment.
are we only wrong?
or thereupon ae was age to us, stood up and little forward faced by face?
it was the hard lot thrice enamored.
so, cows low and bolt.
would you thank them?
not great i think.
but here let view take rest which will not satirize abed.
for great and ingenuous, sick and well, sight will not be stemmed or satisfied.
into desire's aggregate debris neither moist nor rich, nor poor nor far.
above the secular slide and gauzy strip, we see through even babies know it is not possible to read someone's mind.
the slip shutter of pressman and presswomen reaching for dots of orphic thinking to turn into ink is as innocent as reading someone's mind, in spite of the spools of words floating overhead that contradict speech by turning it into objects.
an authorsays there is a dead child in each of us and the newspaper says it tomorrow.
flying babies write on spools floating above the exhibition's landscape as if they themselves were an exhibit of daydreams and what they write are the missing words that predate an artist's epiphany.
word laden spools exit from the museum and float over our village contradicting newsworthy statements.
there is a joke that they pollute the pollution as they bounce through the ozone brought in by the city wind.
watch out has never been reported in the newspaper to have been seen dancing on a dancing spool in the sky, but when we read, we imagine the pressperson writing down words ejaculated from the fraught and frozen voices of a world as if they were the observations of a fully neutral interlocutor and we say watch out.
when we get serious like this, the nihilist laughs at us and this is why his demon is his mode of transportation.
the hello painted in gold on his fur from the time of his birth was a gift from the doctor alias the father, a joker with a child abiding inside him.
the doctor father likes to refer to himself variously as the house of chores, the heap of sighs, and sometimes even the great mother.
the hello was a baby of sorts inside a baby, of sorts.
it jumped and made the little nihilist jump for joy.
its tongue could reach his heart and his heart rolled him up and tumbled him one eve all fleecy down the hills to the swamp where the chill and shine around the misting trees opened its appetite to the romanticized hell grabbers, who were holding a union meeting about their current unemployment.
but the baby nihilist did not know what it meant to be serious.
his heart jumped with fleece and shine when the hello inside him licked it.
there was nothing that did not permit everybody to be in the same place at one time so everybody even those in magenta hats and buttoned suits and those of us smitten by slow sex and those of us who turned around about each other with such abandon that we thought we turned around inside each other and those of us who took notes for the newspaper and the magazine sellers and the photo of one child with the magic fatal worldly eyes, even the creep looking at the photo in front of the aspirin display, the relatives and clowns, the fidgetier and the struggler, a woman eating didactic wall hangings at the underground market, all done, one chair and the billboard baby, all the loss that ever was, the mother fish, the scientist, and the daily's parading their reliquaries visited the swamp on that misty moon lit eve with chill and shine hanging around the trees like open appetites.
of course, there were those of us who bunched up all bunchy and popped from contagious glee when the hello licked the heart of the baby nihilist and there were those of us who respected the quiet of a meeting.
words said we could do this or even something else.
but none of us had a word written in us at birth except the baby nihilist which is what makes his grown body lonely, his tongue a flame, and his mode of transportation a demon.
the poetry of murder helped instigate the murder of poetry.
looking for the root, i forgot the sun.
specific awareness of any state of mind constitutes a kind of certainty.
publishing writing is a dare, a way of initiating struggle at a boundary.
writing consolidates reading, reading generates a kind of vacuum, a kind of frustrated silence.
reading demands expression, writing demands reception.
consciousness, that master poet, never forgets that final touch, even when the heart itself does.
you come to the delicate portion, which is the center of the machine.
you get there by means of feeling your way there because your eyes are no good to you there.
your feelers fly in the air.
you touch the delicate part with your feelings feelers and the whole machine moves.
all afternoon i leave the open door to talk you back to another masquerade of familiar words, our fiddles in this conversation poem we are pretending to be seeing ourselves in some imaginary we, other characters in another story.
i want you to forget our names let us make up i want you to make up my mind like a face another face for another place to face today.
i suppose this is a poem, but you where is that room of coded words where i shall suppose we in parentheses some where we are lying together in a seance of faithless phrases and embedded characters, betraying lust and various dangling constructions.
what are you where we are borne from this poem, in here what are you saying?
where you at last see nothing, i can see your silver ring, i think i am beginning to be afraid.
thin of paper build painting neap nearby full of spooned barn.
moved draper to its sand lock something wrong with the forehead to a prose land as taffy research.
her real name frozen for the sake of publication what's dented bird to lot's wife, poised birth near added black undertow about property sunlight as it slows apart.
someone enlarged all they had was gone over in the opening hand optic pat suit ceased lying outside of him, name at the quotient put too close together.
tannery settle.
ocean rice behind gesture.
life pissed away in talk.
sitting at ford plants prohibited words of the years written in the shape of domesticated animals a certain expression, road spelt by.
mice view cost of month line reduction inland as the sound before it passed on the street white x's composed of hallway.
population privilege hopper a few feet before what he'd managed other than the chocolate of many miles frown barnyards.
foot in the bucket rehab client started as sight dozed, leather lines leading away color jellies prompt that an unbroken seam of glove to turned watch.
another speak simpler by the price of coffee.
police riot at flint celled paulist orange paint marks capital decline applause side, its minutes not quite right floyd, the depth thought out.
its oyster pronouncing dictionary speak chaw the room faced an overnight bag of large print emphasis the wall striped into the train dispatcher's shirt.
farming as pathology years after her prose continued least tern the same set face an after ice later.
mown curve delve as a clock fledge to the skin.
long's kidney as fixed gum bad walls denominator.
clerk by irony person next to a tea kettle of slowed down statistical semitism lengths of eyesight ink sister to wedge down black singes.
chapter size of mennonite pronoun nary a paperboy woke up with his part in his hair, a long sky between facial wheat a fraction of the voice too brittle.
two class agriculture oeuvre deem hidden about glasses, forest as all their voice.
body in a row traumas reap montauk miles quiet, flesh by advance answers where in the milk company houses over, doubled as literature etch tiny pathos fixity bore worried about waves and particles.
peasant at seek words per english daughter sided at inch medicine, tum of noise over her a bunt at their nape in.
temperature with iodide looking for abysinnia two years too late.
skin opener hear around them.
the lean of her sing against theirs stacks of black chapter starting at the eye a size made of egg white knuckle scrip at a time.
keg of nails, ink syrup of the book of judith cuneiform on the zero where the working class ranked in the landscape coleman hawkins more totally a distance french studies billboard, birds eating at it light mere recall from porch, thin craning in.
carbon divided into pulse classes.
mole trove at indian staring man can't get out of the sentence before him, the minutes as difficult letters the soda up its far brook.
what do you call it when men dress up as barber poles a different century or an ice cream parlor full of crying kids?
a father hit one and said, i didn't touch you.
so, her dream is a scape, not world.
his bike resting against it, a man perched on a bus stop bench playing a wooden flute as if making a claim were its own reward.
today she likes those for whom it's clear how they've made peace and with what.
as if candlestick accounted for the length of the pimple curiously curved or carved.
now she says that's impossible.
then she remarked to her dream guests how odd it was for a new, natural form to resemble a man made one.
hunch to inhabit nature minute the rain came complete, attachable ontological but leaning went wet, less sun sinks dedication in the image of myself water hops towards having friends raw material, duplex drop cap in the idea of jogging an apathy to paths tour of work i can correlate a system so over north exists smell can guide us burma boil the happy industry would that be engaging as a canadian activity?
the turbo kicks in and i'm counter balanced employ personal autonomy and are for sale i've forgotten my keyboard historically, honduras imperialism lucid and giddy films armies she's up self-determination oh, right, universal medicare jump total taxable, total due of culture in language from the desk of national identity has always been steroids he is the switzerland of the bar relatively unfiltered form own good, good of the community at this point, i'd like to take some time to tie my thoughts recoils to kowtow even the idea of smells head in half you guys aren't going to be hippies, are you?
half-life of the harm in for the quality exists alongside st. lucia every touch takes tone, satellite folk message drops off just jockey up alongside and insert your card the purple machine points to corruption higher up with a salute earnest, has a hobby without jurisdiction lapping malingering mobile for a rural news service a right hand keyboards your opinion as a jamaica blind, as juke from the outside, a stigmatized nation poll, pinion but becomes my own vocabulary a prestigious volunteer position hand or hip shake top down first class when little was mean you've seen my face now rent my space not a trickle but a thumb single industry level of hostility small cap behooves behavior the ethnocentrism of neil armstrong quill, qualify his pessimism listen utility, accumulates making swamped, mapped own time, company time will our spouses like each other?
normal, sustained happens over time the example of guatemala i've never thought of myself as that kind of person reply attention to walk naturally kind of country.
possessing possessing that possessing that whose possessing that whose loss possessing that whose loss will be avenged possessing that whose loss will be avenged by an unbroken history stretching backwards.
backwards into the body into the body of the poor the body of the poor tetras body of the poor tetras roman of the poor tetras roman history the poor tetras roman history intercalated poor tetras roman history intercalated an alphabetic letter tetras roman history intercalated an alphabetic letter they continue tartars roman history intercalated an alphabetic letter they continue tartars of fell tartarean nature to this day.
had arms attila's huns had arms of such length they could pick up a stone without stooping think equals think print equals print.
without stooping i use words to write.
to defame the present moment in history seconds sired out of bargains by squeezing any number of dying forward sighs beggars will drive the buildings back popes and princes waiting in the snow born before desire so that rules rule by inches one unique measured in blood accents jobs over that french submarine i worshipped with my fishing pole staring happily at the glare on top of the verbal water nymph myth before i could say no or layer my clothes hair plans words.
polis is eyes none say can you see police is eyes wrong words heard before said again tip of the iceberg equals the devil's stool equals the individual a lot of prices under the bride a flood of meanings finds the tongue shoes of the self-clicking hard on number of dollars open the cadence and the art falls out of the closest war the morning of the interesting day arrived.
experience has grazed my eye learned delete i feel i see the modernity spread open before me delicious sounds from dreams i'm asleep reflexively in it's here my immaculate edition dizzy with the rust of time i lift my tongue delightedly from its bed to frame the tools of the trade older than my body attached to them trailing crowds of nuance ever yonder wearing a coating of fact a momentary glimpse of sympathy and applause darling come and dry me at this point power intervenes.
experience has my eye learned i feel i see the modernity spread open before me delicious sounds from dreams i'm asleep reflexively in it's here my immaculate edition dizzy with the rust of time i lift my tongue delightedly from its bed to frame the tools of the trade older than my body attached to them trailing crowds of nuance ever honed wearing a coating of fact a momentary glimpse of sympathy and applause darling come and dry me at this point power intervenes.
there are things you must do captain kirk to save the dying world you just landed on eight minutes ago begin by taking the air out of your thought balloon and trusting the alien in love not with your owl grey irony but with the production of public meaning.
at odd hours one sees a rig of the phantom organization ghosts in the tattered shrouds ownership of legibility.
cloud upon clown wave after wave of stories of stored music here by definition worth the egg waiting for the universe to begin and who's going to eat.
their education and position may be as far apart as heaven from earth the writers reading lips closed eyes open.
reconstruction analytics, super encipherment of the snug in antebellum, one opus needed to smartcard antidote, discuss expenditures, turf lurkers, bundle negatives, scratch horses, and shun statistics against a steady backbeat of abiding concerns, like, say, reconsider baby.
in an age of finding marks of spirit on the surface of the lover's body, altar.
the object and you alter the desire.
oh, grow down.
my innermost after dinner speakers, full and void, intact, biodegradable we the gorgeous fever called consciousness permutes revs up charade revision.
taste embraces treasury, terrific bracket nonetheless.
where nicht equals bull ring, stock expanse recharge, here in this receptacle all our unassuaged longing become a scented insignificance called dusk.
conflated with nonsense, idioms do the shopping now, from wince to tonic to cutting a swathe, awareness of social voice rafts a pedigree, inventing apocrypha for choiring minds.
double crux translates authority into obscurity and out again on land, these buildings all ages facades and functions.
argot and gone.
the word is out.
up.
scratch crotch on camera.
thaw the swan song.
buy chip's microbus.
see pat cross dressed.
buffer no tabloid palsy.
neither tax no frocks nor save on roofs.
he wanted to do more issue related things or was it split of him?
rose, he said, addressing the empty bus with imperial flair, the best ones have flaws.
pan place, reaction shot, more blown up details.
and telling, telling repetition of crowd scenes.
expecting big things from drink, one of these days is going to be a long time ago.
all that’s missing is the laugh track, and believe you me they are.
later purges.
the basic facts as footing only matter horns of what butters guns.
lingering breadbasket resistance scores of i witness switch to unsurpassed amnesia stamina drowsing in a local park, sin solace.
remember the terror famine of motown?
my life as a supreme alternate lead, riff, rift, embittered, bereft, embodied.
adhesive Pretlow to habitual romanticism, low ledge of what flu did not.
prescriptive will misreading married for married.
sharply defined periods of individualism fade with age, as a rule sensation is registered expanded around me the substrate of emotions merely act as gatekeepers disrupted by stress unlike scientific instruments gripped by hands reversed right to left an inhibition of the recall mechanism caused by oxygen shortage swamps the cortex before we know about the external world to improve social behavior according to the disposition of mind harmony must contemplate fairly realistic portraits sanctuaries of color and music in other cubicles until all communicate with the dead emotionally they are cold the capacity to concentrate deteriorates visual efficiency, manual skill as well as psychic components drift in random sequence an attempt to turn blue suggests accomplishment ones initial reaction is stunned unbelief a small but well stocked kitchen enclosed by a barbed chain-link fence out in the middle of the road focused and unfocussed digital numbers glow boxes of food are everywhere surrounded by thin rings of ice despite the heat saffron and basil saturate the air sprouted by the doorstep windows painted opaque white mottled with brown beginning to slough off an arrangement of prisms and triangles otherwise neutral subjects latent in technology could not be rolled back by the intersection of us in all their casual brightness forms sunk to near illegibility at a common level as spectacle prevent him from seeing clearly sharp tonal contrasts nature even in between strange contortions can still pick with accuracy then fuse in a complete form maintaining the same distance the doctor checked him with a gesture pointing to a circular florescent plate on which was carved the symbol of acceleration during the hottest hours every motion was untaught meter night came, and he sent part of his consciousness outward through the soft soil no houses or signs of human life in the visual field the world drab black from decay more sensitive phone calls since the last recorded entry paying or giving back the money saving a very patriotic objective poured himself a coffee devoid of imagination spaced around its front with no communication from the top steady tone that's interesting a persuasive argument before he made his move this taste of the arts flashed fire on the horizon one can no longer excuse or forget.
just now i was looking down at these hands, wrung by acquaintances and friends and one another dear, whose praises, since i have never modelled them, will not be sung any more than men and women in the time to come will admire my ear i know that reading words isn't exactly the same as to see where to see means some in reality passes before the eyes but at least now we're not operating together thoughtlessly in a life where any intelligence is as unwelcomed as surprise.
my hands are two fair creatures, side by side and when i clench them, make a roof etcetera.
when i was under ten i ran everywhere.
i spied on my big sister.
i was the class clown and was eyed by the substitute teacher, a Syrian who tried to peddle us a lid of grass and keep me behind after school too.
when i left that place i did not bid him any fond adieu.
leave them all there in my past in that slumber as of a discontinued lumber town where hands outnumber trees.
let's discuss love.
i've had a few it's hard to tell a pigeon from a dove, but still my hands ring true.
it feels as though my way has traveled far from Europe’s shore, all that outdated hierarchy.
distance is subjective, somewhat.
take a star if only that we're looking at the sky.
revolutionaries are as many as these and while some have none while i lie on my divan and count my flowers unease assails me from inside or is it outside till a moan might have been escaping me for hours when i might elsewise have been picking with the sweet breezes of maybe my foal spring the teeming blossoming objects of our prosperous continent.
heat however fads me in the study, far from dreaming.
it is time i pledged some vows, apart from those, that is, i've taken to the lyre, to be as true to it as chainsaw is to boughs ready to make a widow the next forest fire and suddenly i hear i'm to be retired for failing to accumulate sufficient fans and denied a seat with the Olympians because i sang and wrote when by democracy inspired.
okay then, i pick up the phone and go moan, moan, moan i can keep this kind of thing up for hours my interlocutor begins to think submission sweet in the twilight's last gleaming coming unstoppably apart in the metaphorical heat he pinches his throat to stop himself from screaming.
these morons don't even know the meaning of the word fane.
they think it must be spelled with an me as in the mind of a moron in short, the present humanly speaking causes pain to be spread abroad like thistledown on the wind that brings down fewer substantial verticals than trees and all the time the way der wag gets steep and steeper.
to the corporations, we are worker bees and a little more cunt hair if you please miss sleep and shave those armpits.
the massacre of quietness begins when one is instructed how to dress and ends with the superego stuck up the id and in the brain a thing like a hand on an entity without a name that has your number.
once behavior shall feign no more than all is over all's the same an end to languorous afternoons of soft delight when another human being was a goal to win all hail, performance principle, who brings light into night and decrees the offspring of the rich eternally are in.
you've got that rubber maid look window envelope twenty dollar bills cling film ballooning into Elvis into everlasting binge chubby pyramid or sex almost as good as burning buildings what we used to do before the food spoiled flood dreams over decades get in the car dear.
we're moving out and i was humiliated start a brush fire that particular accent irritated· broom on the behind people a home for special decades of retirement of decency old money anti-nazi anti-union the anti-christ in in a london suburb a shallow grave and sex in spite of heatstroke the satisfying crunch of insects clear collapse of capital moving up to cigarette level the coffee table shuddered silently beneath tan shoes my first time over with a clothes hanger almost too quick to be a good time a loss i never quite got over let me explain the accident no one carried that much cash a human binge unanswered questions don'protect you accepting history as symmetry we miss the boat the hole in the sky too big to risk it.
the vitamization of the western world the children pointed out the quack across the street the poodle always went for him of course we've all been lonely really lonely lined up for the cash machine i dreamed of quick relief sex resulted in a baby i would not call cute neon pesticides kill brilliantly he has such moral weight the power of the hoover upright i'm unsure if i remember the exceptional these are good questions the joy of my money overpowering yours i was smart enough to buy hotels we were quite close no one in the home knows she's a communist in fantasies i'm always leaving better accidents we were glad we spoke american at the border but no one ever really understood desire is a motive today's horoscope predicts false color accidental lightness private racism in a polite country controlling sadness exhaust fumes.
the world and all its burden of traps, dishes, forget me nots, wheels, ampules, laughter, freight, comets, deals parentheses, batches, cloisters, fair havens, place settings, ground cloths, pollsters, minions, theories, lecterns, rings, criteria, sorts, and all manner of blistering palms was found by the side of the road lacking only a local node.
efforts to rescusitate the dead have ended often in a backwards representation of the day.
the personalities, the ambience, the montage, the sound all these graced his mind in a trice but what happened this escaped him.
the sky opened on a possible life the senses set in relief.
bearing in mind and reversing the immediate past has long since become second nature, a habit built up to the status of i. d. i doubt it.
the strand the bullet proof vest the carbon copy all attitudes of a world i can only.
connect the dots.
that's what i was trying to tell you.
the missing element recedes from the point, f view.
light drains from the day that is the nature of evening.
the first one of summer is a metaphor for freehand, a writing written in script.
going away from it the weight program i have broken into it broken it into pieces about the size and shape of blows about the head not about but away from anything fits this loose place skimming the surface of dreams set up during the day collapsed at night distanced, positioned, reduced a may weight removed to let june have its way with it a delimiter totalling none of schedules drawn into the scheme of things delicate, nodding, half diminished there in the milk of a syllable the perfect fret caught in the forgotten sentence.
these heady plans chase sound into a bush.
flatten the letter.
a spoon stirs shadows i'm over here up on the time zone.
the cymbidium tends toward the grey light the other side of the wall.
the other side of my head is your head.
you have a hat on.
the world barely fits under the polar ice cap.
i have more plans rolled up in an attic locker than you can shake rattle and stick to the subject a speech that wavers, a language that takes hold.
the president never explicitly authorizes covert action but signals his approval by means of a mental finding.
the public never officially acknowledges this betrayal but indicates its mortification by way of a spiritual loss.
the person never actually notices the repetitious layering of experience but circles the task with a red pencil to convey error.
the date in june remember the beijing massacre and long the students the way the world has of reversal the power of absorbtion the power of brutal repression rewrite this later scared teenagers with automatic weapons the jagged edges are smoothed over to proffer a picture when rhetoric fills the news the world picture source has fashioned another banter the forgotten palaver of indigents creases the air lines rll down the cathode ray cheek of the party chairman picture a less complicated version of this unwitting career the weather station the golf cart the maze a man sings.
what he has been singing for years what have you been dreaming lately but it building the body out of effort takes the mind off the hook is this world comprises an of brief sessions incomplete.
heart's tackle pulse shears shapeless digest enflamed voluntaries whet on tumble force from here to already here cuts off circumstances, less inside come off it insist which clone is original night eyelets steeping the cheeks.
machinists melody feedback with good manners contempt breeds repetition.
buffer books booth blush volley body levied copy mouth's kindle at suggest what retracts is due.
pencil up wrongs a little filler on the whole top full foaled anatomy venom to pardon part by teeth spider in a spoon, pygmy gum chastising underprop too clean for edges.
the yielded set hold that lapse.
hum span the contrivance tilts, bulldozes change the unacquainted lips counterfeit module bias gives head to cull froth ribs equals malice.
pluto relented vaunt doll blot bated befits seeming assonance and hardness administer hips in serving plates extend to palm the skim escort layers.
repair interrupts, keeps habits from disinterested overrefinementals practice your peaches.
smack or no motion impulse resolution clutters on the spot, titles from coops requital pledged in with expedient to pause sorry, mink have is have unthread the eye, the deserved of all observed a page of clouts too respective in undeterred differences.
seizure do your scrub this morning out of the day half blown to adulterate autocracy's body conjointly bed your deeds soft petitions mousing the shorts off multi tempered minute of truth rank in spate, and decision creates allowance underwrought and overmined.
issue vibrate mess and catechize pineal blots innocence smells consent like even almost assurance betrothed eat anonymous part poison accoutrement to cull the perves of best unblotting.
secret clip conceit understands immediate leisure to outface fragment quantity scope instance unvex gauze toys aphid mark sociably sinewed sign farms the word squeak on banquet.
teach us some rude.
lineal scathe rated wax, forerunner of cavity spurns restraint for compulsion coil covet bitters bright sheath publishing to this hand to souse and swoop.
dishabit backslid genealogy safe to reverse beckon pre op floor pays for knuckles endommagement plotted sashay haste occasion stuns the will, diapers the pill open to urge a certain amount of tangling up into things pin broke sex hush converts discarded puns to brief the womb.
fake precedent, recharge shocks.
flatter soothes up incite to suggest tame to task thick ribbed goosebumps appetited tooth.
gap galls, gall gaps.
check the whirl warrant stains unsurping down cheeks clear to pour speed in the flattering tablet the brief rights and the abstract compels.
closer jacket.
brace made tense unyoke's pencil guilt smeared the manage of my heart sponges your medicine of my economy to speed out sparks.
a bridge is the passage between two banks.
on saturdays both banks are closed.
a well is located in a wall of sound but space is not the stake where suddenly both travellers fall in.
now draw a line between some water and their eyes.
express it as the border of a reservoir.
the term ears stands ready to attack.
attach it then repeat this phrase.
when the next follows not no light ensueth from but in the same begin again.
the nose with this noise invents a scale.
the cottage is attempts and tries to break at random from at noon a forest hidden by a single tree.
narrative becomes sporadic or clairvoyant in a place where bed becomes the meaning of the rest.
now say embrace me.
motors trivialize.
eighty six windows show the noun to be a house.
the known is now a mark that falls across and leaves a perfect number.
forget the thirds in this and the silhouettes change place.
you can no longer make a choice.
you start at zero by the word called church in the forest by a beach beyond the sea between a fingernail the moment logic begins.
this future ensures you a geometry.
basic liquids add a soup.
now change it.
write down i can no longer state a model is at work.
an original stain is now discovered.
then make filters for each body.
draw all the composition off.
forbid readers to follow wherever you inscribe a line.
this sea as a mixture and the sand relating questions to the horizontal movements of a prebiotic plan.
you are now discovering that concrete form involves both circulation and the clinamen.
so a motivated plot exists.
now start to weave and you'll connect this space.
then try to say the word plot is ambiguous so that all future lines repeat their past as empty figures.
nothing is narrative.
now alter it.
the equator drops and floats upstream.
request similitudes.
a pluralist sidewalk remains.
go back to the start.
the saturdays stay close to a catastrophic separation.
the bridge is a son who kills the father at a crossroad.
in the well of the week drops the other son's name.
now set out all the other links to constitute a set of probable ideas.
the crevice of the lip connects a writing that's as still as ink.
this final switch is exactly what's happening.
the constant factor in a cloud.
eight.
the ground you stand on is a picture of this page.
four.
the statement below stands unexposed above.
fifteen.
this information as commodity informs the institution speaking this.
the scene of the poem is the night it represents.
seven.
none of this can be me.
the narrative occurs when it takes place beneath this number.
twelve.
this constitutes a start if all of this is me beyond the change these words instrude.
three.
in the case above it would be wrong to call the following a viewpoint.
this poet lies rotting on a table.
as tradition develops explanations appear.
two.
each sentence explains what a writer intends.
eighty six.
my story will follow.
one.
a picture of helios implies a need to stay the same.
these words invested here do not describe it.
each number is born of the desire to distinguish.
ninety four.
the reader thus implied above still copies a nature.
eighteen.
you are witnessing the inverse of an earlier position in the words which follow.
forty four.
this is where culture begins.
twenty eight.
a theory repeats among the given facts of this page.
six.
the reader must amputate a semaphor as metaphor.
the word this final sentence must combine a mind.
second half of the reading is more intimate from the cellar two flights down blond blues band hopeful frats in muscle shirts and jamms imitate king.
the prices on the menu have been crossed out and new, higher ones inked in.
without a theory for institutionalizing its victories rare enough, the left would have nothing to offer even the most ardent small children fart freely.
believers in justice.
sniffing poppers on a crowded bus, or else grading restaurants not by the food but what you learn walking back to the john.
frosted panes here on dawn windows.
registers the difference between indoors and out.
no theory of the line without its history also.
plastic pen lies snapped on the floor of the train.
even the clown's tennies are bright pink, hair the color of a new penny.
reagan's plaid weekend shirt.
tracks disappear in the distance one point perspective sucked into the gray horizon, shadows without options cast by the mechanical sun.
machination sleazes powder.
the further it spins out, accumulates the greater the distance, a curiously cold quality like one's face in the mirror, unfamiliar.
the debt that pataphysics owes to sophism cannot be overstated.
a missionary with a horse gets saddlesores as easily as a functionary.
but this makes a mishmash of overriding ethical impasses.
if the liar is a cretan i wouldn't trust him anyway extenuating contexts wouldn't amount to a hill of worms so far as i would have been deeply concerned about the fate of their, yes, spools.
never burglarize a house with a standing army, nor take the garbage to an unauthorized junket.
yet when i told the learned ecologist about my concern for landscape she stared unsympathetically into the carbon.
mr. spoons shook his head, garbled his hypostases.
to level with you we'd have to be on the same level.
then, with all honesty, we can only proceed to de.
looking for society in a lamppost will not necessarily eliminate need for empirical evidence.
there are the below the surface conduits to consider.
as a rule, i keep my mittens in the drawer.
structure is metaphorical, function metonymic.
meaning my aim is to blur the distinction between logic and normalization.
though i still don't get how confusion is supposed to be positive?
are they literally bricks or are they literal steps?
the infernal machinery of missing harness, by the bus, gates close to malediction, as in get off my bunt, churning in make work flirtation, shocked to find a bandit loosened venetian red rem, prussian ultramarine rem, shiva red, thick red, thick pink, thick ochre, medillm green paintstick thick, thin black, thin ochre, thin red, paper palette, tissues, garbage bags, wax.
yet it is the virile voice of authority, the condescending smugness in tone, that is thrilling.
what does it matter that he hasn't any creative goals and financial goals are identical we just have different approaches on how to research those goals, and we have different definitions of risk.
a localization that may not dovetail with forced archaization, which is the groundswell of our importunity.
and speaking of pressmen's licence, here is a truly novel instance of creating facts riddled with holes like baloney.
respond yes or no.
the point not to right wrong but to come to terms with error.
it's not only the wrong road but the wrong destination still if there's no way back, there's company in the loss.
heeding without ceding couples dancing in the snow, in the blinding light.
no matter how much you protest.
if i'd have ed longer.
i'd have lost even more money.
for months he retreated into his inner sanctuary, emerging only for meals and sleep once, stealing through its locked doors, we briefly glimpsed the spot bare walls without furniture or implement, floor covered with thick black loam.
better a barber than a splendor be.
fool's gold is the only kind of gold i ever cared about.
the men, having lost their comrades in the explosion, returned the next day to the mine and the memory what other image of courage could have so little capital and so much weight?
the salt of the earth is the tears of god, torn for penitence at having created this plenitude of sufferance.
so we dismember disremember in hoitiage to our maker, foraging in fits, forgiving in forests, spearing what we take to be our sustenance belittling to rein things in to human scale.
a holy land parched with grief and dulled envy.
the land is soil and will not stain such hope as we may rise from.
what excuses have you to offer, my heart, for so many shortcomings?
such constancy on the part of the beloved, such unfaithfulness on your own.
so much generosity on his side, on yours such niggling contrariness.
so many graces from him, so many faults committed by you.
such envy, such evil imaginings and dark thoughts in your heart, such drawing, such tasting, such munificence by him.
why all this tasting?
that your bitter soul may become sweet.
why all this drawing?
that you may join the company of the saints.
you are repentant of your sins, you have the name of the all on your lips in that moment he draws you on, so that he may deer you ae.
you are fearful at last of your wrongdoings, you seek desperately a way to salvation in that instant why do you not see by your side him who is putting such fear into your heart?
if he has bound up your eyes, you are like a pebble in his hand now he rolls you along like this, now he tosses you in the air.
now he implants in your nature a passion for silver and gold and women now he implants in your soul the light of the form of mustang.
on this side drawing you towards the lovely ones, on that side drawing you to the unlovely amid these whirlpools the ship can only pass through or founder.
offer up so many prayers, weep so sorely in the night season, that the echo may reach your ears from the sphere of the seven heavens.
when the saint groaning and lamentation and tears like hailstones passed beyond all bounds, in the morning a proclamation came to him from heaven if you are a sinner, i have forgiven you and granted you pardon for your sins.
is it paradise you seek?
look, i have given it to you be silent, stop seeking.
the saint retorted, i seek neither this nor that.
what i desire is to see the all face to face though the seven seas all turn to fire, i will plunge therein if only i may encounter him.
but if i am banished from that spectacle, if my tear stained eyes are shut against that vision, i am more fit to dwell in hellfire paradise becomes me not.
without his countenance, paradise for me is hateful hell.
i am consumed by this hue and scent of mortality where is the splendor of the lights of immortality?
they said, at least moderate your weeping, lest your sight be diminished, for the eye becomes blind when weeping passes beyond bounds.
he said, if my two eyes in the end should be seeing after that fashion, every part of me will become an eye why then should i grieve over blindness?
but if in the end this eye of mine should be deprived forever, let that sight indeed become blind which is unworthy to behold the beloved.
in this world, every man would become a ransom for his beloved one man's beloved is a bag of blood, anther's the sun in splendor.
since every man has chosen a beloved, good or bad, as suits his own nature, it would be a pity if we should annihilate ourselves for the sake of nothing.
one day a traveler was accompanying the eloquent on a certain road.
presently the eloquent said to him, what trade have you chosen, you rogue?
the man replied, i am an ass driver.
the eloquence exclaimed, be gone from me.
power, grant that his ass may die, that he may become the slave of the all.
lovers, lovers, this day you and we are fallen into a whirlpool who knows how to swim?
though the world's torrent should overflow and every wave become like a dromedary, why shall the waterfowl worry?
it is the bird of the air that should be anxious.
our faces are lighted up with gratitude, schooled as we are in wave and sea, inasmuch as ocean and flood are life increasing to the fish.
elder, hand us a towel water, let us plunge into you moses son of ‘iran, come, smite the water of the sea with your staff.
this wind concocts in every head a different passion let my passion be for yonder cup bearer, and you may have all the rest.
yesterday yon saki on the way snatched the caps of the drunkards today he is giving yet more wine, preparing to strip us of our robes.
envy of the moon and of jupiter, with us, yet hidden from sight, gently you are drawing me on will you not say whither?
wherever you go, you are with me still, you who are my eyes and my brightness if you will, draw me to drunkenness, if you will, transport me to annihilation.
know that the world is like mount sinai, and we are seekers every moment an epiphany arrives and cleaves the mountain asunder.
one portion becomes green, one portion becomes narcissus white one portion becomes a pearl, one portion ruby and amber.
you who seek to behold him, gaze upon this mountain chain of his.
mountain, what wind has blown upon you?
we have become intoxicated with the echo.
gardener, gardener, why have you come to grapple witches?
if we have carried off your grapes, you have carried off our purse.
today i beheld the beloved, that ornament of every affair he went off departing to heaven like the spirit of mustang.
the sun is put to shame by his countenance, heaven's sphere is as confused as the heart through his glow, water and clay are more resplendent than fire.
i said, show me the ladder, that i may mount up to heaven.
he said, your head is the ladder bring your head down under your feet.
when you place your feet on your head, you will place your feet on the head of the stars when you cleave through the air, set your foot on the air, so, and come.
a hundred ways to heaven's air become manifest to you you go flying up to heaven every dawning like a prayer.
every instant a revelation from heaven comes to men's innermost souls how long like dregs do you remain upon earth?
come up.
whoever is heavy of soul in the end proves to be dregs only then does he mount to the top of the vat when his dregs are clarified.
do not stir the clay every moment, so that your water may become clear, so that your dregs may be illumined, so that your pains may be cured.
it is spiritual, like a torch, only its smoke is greater than its light when it's smoke passes beyond bounds, it no longer displays radiance in the house.
if you diminish the smoke, you will enjoy the light of the torch both this abode and that will become illumined by your light.
if you look into muddy water, you see neither the moon nor the sky sun and moon both disappear when darkness possesses the air.
a northern breeze is blowing, through which the air becomes clarified it is for the sake of this burnishing that at dawn the zephyr breathes.
the spiritual breeze burnishes the breast of all sorrow let the breath be stopped but for a moment, and annihilation will come upon the spirit.
the soul, a stranger in the world, is yearning for the city of no place why, why does the bestial spirit continue solon to graze?
the the oldest pure, goodly soul, how long will you journey on?
you are the king's falcon fly back toward the emperor.
lovers, lovers, the time of union and encounter has come.
the proclamation from heaven has come moon laced beauties, welcome hither.
joyous hearts, joyous hearts, joy has come skirt trailing we have seized its chain, it has seized our skirts.
the fiery potion has come demon sorrow, sit in a corner death anxious soul, depart immortal saki, enter in.
the seven spheres of heaven are drunk with passion for youwe are as counters in your hand our being through your being is a myriad times at ease.
sweet breathed minstrel, every instant shake the bell gladness, saddle your steed zephyr, blow upon our souls.
sound of the sweet conversing reed, in your note is the taste of sugar your note brings me night and morning the scent of fidelity.
make beginning again, play those airs once moresun lovely of presence, glory over all the lovely ones.
be silent, do not rend the veil drain the flagon of the silent ones be a deceiver, be a deceiver, habituate yourself to the clemency of the all.
how sweet it is to give speech and head, to converse with his lip, especially when he opens the door and says, good sir, come in.
to the dry lip he tells the story of the fountain according to the stature of the man the tailor of his love cuts the gown.
the fountains become drunken through the intoxication of his eye the trees are dancing before the gentle breeze of dawn.
the nightingale says to the rosebush, what is in your heart?
declare it this instant.
no other is near only you and i. the rosebush answers, so long as you are with yourself, entertain not this ambition.
make a special effort to transport the burden of your self hood out of this earthly abode.
the eye of the needle of passion is narrow know for a certainty that it will not admit any thread when it perceives it to be of double strand.
behold how the sun is up to the throat in fire, so that through its face the face of the earth may become full of light.
when moses proceeded towards the burning bush, the bush said, i am the water take off your shoes, and come.
do not fear my fire, for i am water and sweet at that you have come to prosperity the seat of honor is yours, welcome.
you are a pearl of pure luster, a ruby of the mine, the soul of place and gracelessness you are the nonpareil of the age where are other creatures beside you?
through love's hand, every hand becomes the royal court of munificence through you, the faithless world becomes the factory of fidelity.
at the first hour of day you came, in your hand the royal bowl you are drawing my soul towards the feast, saying, welcome.
what becomes of the heart, when the heart's hand grasps the hand of a sweetheart?
what becomes of the dross copper, when it hears the welcoming voice of the philosopher's stone?
a wondrous darling came, in his hand a lance, like a bedding.
i said, what service can i render?
he said, come up to me.
my heart leaped, saying, shall i run?
my reason said, shall i go?
generously he signaled, saying, yes, both of you.
since the table has come down from heaven, wash your hands and your mouth too, that there may not proceed from your palms the odor of onions and chives.
the mine of salt has arrived take heed, if you are goodly and a lover.
seize the bowl, and give the cup choose riot, not broth.
now i close these two lips, so that the lamp of day and night even with the flame of the tongue may tell you the whole story.
plus the king has come, the king has come adorn the palace hall cut your forearms in honor of the fair one of since the soul of the soul of the soul has come, it is not to mention the soul in his presence of what use is the soul, save as a sacrifice?
without love i was one who had lost the way of a sudden love entered.
i was a mountain i became a straw for the horse of the king.
whether he be turk or tamika, this slave is near to him even as soul to body only the body does not behold the soul.
my friends, good luck has arrived the time has come for offering up the load a solomon has come to the throne, to depose satan.
leap from your place why do you tarry?
why are you so helpless?
if you know it not, seek from the hoop the way to solomon's palace.
there make your litanies, there utter your secrets and your needs solomon indeed knows the speech of all the birds.
speech is a wind, slave, and distracts the heart but he commands it, gather together the scattered ones.
have you ever seen any lover who was satiated with this passion?
have you ever seen any fish that had become satiated with this sea?
have you ever seen any image that was fleeing from the engraver?
have you ever seen anyone asking pardon of fire?
in separation, the lover is like a name empty of meaning but a meaning such as relatedness has no need of names.
you are the sea, i am a fish hold me as you desire show compassion, exercise kingly power without you, i remain alone.
powerful emperor, what dearth of compassion is this then?
the moment you are not present, the fire rages so high.
if the fire beholds you, it withdraws to a corner for whoever plucks a rose from the fire, the fire bestows a lovely rose.
without you, the world is a torment may it not be without you for a single instant by your life i implore this, for life without you is a torture and an agony to me.
your image like a sultan was parading within my heart, even as a solomon entering the temple of jerusalem thousands of lanterns sprang into flame, all the temple was illumined paradise and the pool thronged with ancient spirits.
exalted be the all, exalted be the all.
within heaven so many moons.
this tabernacle is full of hawk man, only they are hidden from the eyes of the blind.
splendid, happy bird that has found a dwelling in love.
how should any but the ether find place and lodging in lake?
splendid, powerly, emperor.
for he is the sun neither of the east nor of the west, nor of any place.
how would it be, if my fair love should take my hand tomorrow, hang his head through the window like the lovely featured moon?
if my life augmenter enters, loosens my hands and feet?
for my hands and feet too are bound fast by the hand of fixed banishment.
then i would say to him, by your life i swear that without you, life of my soul, company makes me not happy, neither does wine intoxicate me.
then if he replies coquettishly, be gone.
what do you want of me?
i fear that your melancholy may make me melancholic.
i would bring sword and winding sheet and bow my neck as a sacrificial offering, saying, your head is aching because of strike deliberately.
you know that i desire not towithout you better for me is death than banishment, by the all who brings the dead to life.
i never could believe that you would turn away from your servant i ever said, the words spoken by my enemies are lying inventions.
you are my soul, and without my soul i know not how toyou are my eyes, and without you i have not a seeing eye.
let go these words minstrel, strike up an air bring forwardness and tambourine, if you do not have a reed pipe.
today give in full measure that pure wine strike in utter confusion this hasty wheel of heaven.
even granted that the unseen bowl has come hidden from the eyes, it is not possible to conceal drunkenness and depravity.
love, whose trade is joy, sweet of speech and sweet of thought, snatch now the veil from the face of that veiled king auspicious one, that cries of exultation may arise from this side and that, fill up, rosy of cheek, flagon and bowl.
if you do not wish the rose to be disclosed, why did you open the rosewater shop?
having robbed us of our senses and set this river flowing, fling into the water with all speed the water duckling.
soul, we are as corn sprung in this expanse, dry of lip and seeking with our es the cloud borne rain.
on every side a new messenger declares, you will never find depart.
cry the all for fend against that illumined crow.
riot provoker of every spirit, robber of every temple, filching.
today i desire that you should intoxicate and craze this chatterbox soul, that wordy reason.
water of life to us, become manifest as the resurrection, what though the milk of the scabby camel is life to the bedding.
very lovely is your majesty and beauty be silent and hold your breath, make not aware of us every heedless one drowned in slumberous the rose i am laughing with all my body, not only with my mouth, because i am without myself, alone with the king of the world.
you who came with torch and at dawn ravished my heart, dispatch my soul after my heart, do not seize my heart alone.
do not in rage and envy make my soul a stranger to my heart do not leave the former here, and do not summon the latter alone.
send a royal message, issue a general invitation how long, sultan, shall the one be with you and the other alone?
if you do not come tonight as yesterday and close my lips, will make a hundred uproars, my soul, i will not lament alone.
come, you who have given new life to the world, put out of action cunning reason.
until you flight me like an arrow, i cannot fly come, fill once more the bow.
because of your love, the bowl has fallen again from the roof once more send down from the roof that ladder.
plus men ask me, in which direction is his roof?
in that direction whence the soul was brought in that direction whither every night the soul departs, then in the time of dawn he brings back the soul in that direction when spring comes to the earth, and at dawn he bestows a new lamp upon the heavens in that direction hence a staff became a serpent, and he bore off pharaoh's host to hell in that direction hence arose this quest in you itself a token, it seeks a token.
you are that man who is seated upon an ass, and keeps asking of the ass this and that.
be silent for out of jealous regard he desires not to bring all and sundry into the sea.
do you break our harp, exalted one thousands of other harps are here.
since we have fallen into the clutches of love, what matters it if we lose harp or reed pipe?
if the whole world's harp should be consumed, many a hidden harp there is, my friend the twanging and strumming mounts to the skies, even if it does not enter the ears of the deaf.
if the whole world's lamp and candle should flicker out, what cause for sorrow is that, since flint and steel still remain?
songs are spindrift on the face of the sea no pearl comes on the surface of the sea yet know that the grace of the spin drift derives from the pearl, the reflection of the reflection of whose gleam is upon us.
songs are all but a branch of the yearning for union branch and root are never comparable.
close your lips, and open the window of the heart by that way be conversant with the spirits.
soul and stay of every soul, who bestow wings and set the spirits in motion, with you, what fear have we of loss, you who convert all losses to gain?
alasforthe arrows of the glances and the brows curved like bows.
you have sugared the ruby lips of fair idols, you have opened those mouths in desire.
you who have put a key in our hand and therewith opened the door of the worlds, if you be not in the midst of us, then why are those waists girdled?
and if yours is not the wine without token, of what are these tokens testimony?
and if you are beyond our surmise, yet through whom are these surmises ing?
and if you are hidden from our world, from whom do the hidden things become manifest?
let go the tales of this world we have grown a weary of them.
the soul that has fallen into the sugar sprinkler how should such things be contained in its heart?
he who has become the earthforyour feet, how should he be mindful of the heavens?
bind up our tongue with your protection cast us not forth into the midst of these tongues.
i beheld the lovely rose face, that eye and lamp of all brightness, that altar be tore which the soul prostates, that gladness anyplace of security.
the heart said, i will yield up my soul there, i will let go of being and falsehood.
the soul also joined in the concert and began to clap hands.
reason came and said, what shall i say regarding this good fortune and sublime felicity, this scent of a rose that made upright as a cypress every back that was curved and bent double?
in love all things are transformed armenian is changed to turk.
soul, you have attained to the soul of the soul body, you have abandoned the body.
the ruby is the alms of our beloved the dervish eats the gold of the rich that anguish discovers a new dates fresh and ripe.
lest the eye of a stranger should fall upon it, do not show off your good deed to men if your desire from faith is security, seek your security in seclusion.
what is the place of seclusion?
the house of the heart become habituated to dwell in the heartin the heart's house is deered that bowl of wholesome and everlasting wine.
be silent, and practice the art of silence let go all artful bragging for the heart is the place of faith, there in the heart hold fast to faithfulness.
love has rose bowers amid the veil of blood lovers have affairs to transact with the beauty of incomparable love.
reason says, the six directions are the boundary, and there is no way out love says, there is a way, and i have many times traveled it.
reason beheld a bazaar, and began trading love has beheld many bazaars beyond reason's bazaar.
many a hidden guy there is who, confiding in the soul of love, abandoned the pulpit and mounted the scaffold.
honey sucking lovers possess ecstatic perceptions inwardly men of reason, dark of heart, entertain denials within them.
reason says, set not your foot down, for in the courtyard there is naught but thorns love says, these thorns belong to the reason which is within you.
beware, be silent pluck the thorn of being out of the heart's foot, that you may behold the florists within youngish i, you are the sun within the cloud of words when your sun arose, all speech was obliterated.
yesterday i gave a star a message for you i said to it, deer my compliments to that one fair as the moon.
prostrating myself, i said, convey this prostration to that sun who by his burning glow converts hard rocks to gold.
i opened my breast and showed it the wounds i said to it, bear tidings of me to the beloved who delights in drinking blood.
i rocked to and from to hush the infant of my heart the infant sleeps when the cradle is rocked.
give milk to the infant of my heart, deer us from turning about, you who every moment succor a hundred helpless ones like me.
after all, in the first place the heart's abode was the city of union how long will you keep in exile this vagrant heart?
i have relapsed into silence but to ward off crop sickness turn about, saki of the lovers, your vintner eye.
i go forth, my comrades, draw along our beloved, at last bring to me the fugitive idol with sweet melodies and golden pretexts draw to the house that moon sweet of presence.
and if he promises, i will come in another moment, all his promises are but cunning to beguile you.
he possesses a flaming breath, by enchantment and wizardry knotting the water and tying up the air.
when in blessedness and joy my darling enters, sit you down and behold the marvels of the all.
when his beauty shines forth, what shall be the beauty of the comely ones?
for his sun bright face extinguishes all lamps.
go, fleet paced heart, to yemen, to my heart's beloved, convey my greetings and service to that ruby beyond price.
a garden may its roses bloom till resurrection day an idol may the two worlds be scattered over its beauty.
at daybreak the prince of the fair ones stalks forth to the chase may our hearts be the quarry for the arrows of his glances.
what messages are ominously flashing from his eyes to mine may my eyes be gladdened and intoxicated by his message.
i broke down the door of an ascetic with an imprecation he banned me be gone.
may your days all be without peace.
thanks to his curse, the beloved has left me neither peace nor heart, that beloved who thirsts for my blood may the all befriend him.
my body is like the moon, melting away out of love my heart is like venus'harp may its strings be snapped.
regard not the moon's melting, venus'broken estate behold rather the sweetness of his sorrow may it increase a thousand told.
what a bride is in the soul.
through the reflection of her face may the world be fresh and figured as the hands of the newly wedded.
regard not the fleshy cheek, which corrupts and decay regard the spiritual cheek may it be fair and lovely for ever.
the dark body is like a raven, and the physical world is winter despite these two lovelies, may there be spring eternal.
for these two creeps subsist through the four elements may your servants subsist through other than these four.
when you display that rosy cheek, you set the stones spinning for joy.
once again put forth your head from the veil, for the sake of the dumbstruck lovers, that learning may lose the way, that the man of reason may break his science to piecesthat water through your reflection may convert to a pearl, that fire may abandon warfare.
with your beauty, i desire not the moon, neither those two or three hanging little lanterns.
with your face, i do not call the ancient, rusty heavens a mirror.
you breathed, and created anew in another shape this narrow world.
in desire for his mars like eye, play, venus, again that harp.
the heart is like a grain of corn, we are like a mill how does the mill know why this turning?
the body is like a stone, and the water its thoughts the stone says, the water knows what is toward.
the water says, ask the miller, for it was he who flung this water down.
the miller says to you, bread eater, if this does not turn, how shall the crumb broth be?
much business is in the making silence, ask the all, that he may tell you.
here someone is hidden suppose not that you are alone.
she has very sharp ears do not open your tongue to evil.
that pet has taken lodging by the fountain of your heart thereby every form of image has become manifest to you.
wherever a fountain is, there is a place you must act cautiously there.
since these five fountains of the senses are flowing over your body, know that it is by the superintendence of that fairy that sometimes they are stopped up, sometimes set flowing.
know also that those five inward senses, such as imagination and conception, are likewise five fountains running towards the pasture.
every fountain has two superintendents and controllers they disclose their forms to you in the time of burnishing.
they smite you if you are unmannerly, for this kind of famous and impetuous and shows no favor.
determinism beguiles deliberation, saying, now leap into action its cunning has snatched the blanket from a hundred thousand such as we.
behold the birds in the cage, behold the fishes in the net, behold the hearts lamenting on account of that knowing trickster.
open not your eye surreptitiously on any idol out of treachery, lest that all seeing prince cast you from his regard.
several verses still remain, but this fountain has sunk into the ground that will bubble up from the fountain when we leap up tomorrow.
bring into motion your amber scattering trees bring into dancing the souls of the sufis.
sun, moon and stars dancing around the circle, we dancing in the midst set that midst advancing.
your grace minstrel wise with the smallest melody brings into the wheel the sufi of heaven.
the breeze of spring comes hurrying, uttering a melody it sets the world laughing, raises autumn from the dead.
many a snake becomes a friend, rose partners thorn the season of scattering largeness is come to the king of the orchard.
every moment a perfume wafts from the garden like a message some whither, as if to say, cry welcome today to the friends.
the orchard, departed into its secret heart, is speaking to you do you depart into your own secret, that life may come to your soul, that the lily's bud may open its secret to the cypress, that the tulip may bring good tidings to willow and betrayer tree, that the secret of every young shoot may emerge from the depths, the after worldly having set up a ladder in the garden.
the songbirds and nightingales are seated in the branches, like the guardian enjoying his stipend from the treasury these leaves are like tongues, these fruits like hearts when the hearts show their feces, they give worth to the tongue.
you who are my soul's repose in the time of pain, you who are my spirit's treasure in the bitterness of poverty, that which imagination never conceived, reason and understanding never perceived, has entered my soul from youtherefore to you alone i turn in worship.
through your grace i gaze boldly upon eternal lifeking, how should a perishing empire beguile me?
the melody of that person who brings me glad tidings of you, even if it be in sleep, is better than all poets'songs to me.
in the genuflections of prayer your image, king, is as necessary and obligatory to me as the seven oft repeated verses.
when unbelievers sin, you are all compassion and intercession to me you are the chief and leader of the stone heated.
if everlasting bounty should offer all kingdoms and place before me every hidden treasure, i would prostrate myself with all my soul and lay my face on the earth, i would say, out of all these, the love of a certain one for me.
for me the time of union is eternal life, for in that moment no time contains me.
life is a vessel, and in it union is a pure wine without you, of what avail to me is the labor of the vessels?
before this, twenty thousand desires were mine in my passion for him, not one single aspiration has remained to me.
through the succor of his grace, i have become secure from the monarch of the unseen saying to me, thou shalt not see me.
the essence of the meaning of he my heart and soul has filled he is even though he said he is not the third and the second to me.
union with him transported my spirit my body paid not attention, though disengaged from the body he became visible to me.
i have become old in grief for him but when you name, all my youth returns.
again the violet bent double has arrived beside the lily, again the rubber clad rose is tearing her gown to shreds again our green gowned ones have gaily arrived from beyond the world swift as the wind, drunken and stalking and joyous.
the standard bearing cypress went off and consumed autumn with rage, and from the mountaintop the sweet featured anemone showed its face.
the hyacinth said to the jasmine, peace be upon you the latter replied, upon you be peace come, lad, into the meadow.
a sufi on every side, having attained some favor, clapping hands like the tree, dancing like the zephyr the bud, concealing its face like veiled ladies the breeze draws aside its charade saying, unveil your face, good friend.
the friend
 is in this quarter of ours, water in this our streamlotus in your finery, why are you atheist and pale?
sour faced winter has departed, that joy slayer has been slain swift footed jasmine, long may you be.
the busy narcissus winked at the verdure the verdure understood its words and said, yours is the command.
the clove said to the willow, i am in hope of you the willow answered, my bachelor apartment is your private chamber welcome.
the apple said, orange, why are you puckered?
the orange replied, i do not show myself off for fear of the evil eye.
the ring dove came cooing, where is that friend?
the sweet noted nightingale pointed him to the rose.
beside the world's springtime there is a secret spring moon cheeked and sweet of mouth, give wine, saki.
moon rising in the shadows of darkness, the light of whose lamp vanquishes the sun at noon.
several words yet remain unsaid, but it is unseasonably late whatever was omitted in the night i will complete tomorrow.
if you are love's lover and in quest of love, take a sharp dagger and cut the throat of bashfulness.
know that reputation is a great barrier in the path what i say is disinterested accept it with a tranquil mind.
why did that madman work a thousand kinds of madness, that chosen wild one invent a thousand wiles?
now he rent his robe, now he ran over the mountains, now he quaffed poison, now he elected annihilation since the spider seized such huge prey, consider what prey the snare of my power the most high will take.
since the love of's face had all that worth, how will it be with he carried his servant by night?
have you not seen the poets?
have you not read the stories?
you gather up your garment lest the water should wet it you must dive a thousand times into the sea.
love's path has proved all drunkenness and abasement, the torrent flows downwards how should it run upwards?
you will be as a bezel in the lovers'ring, if you are the ear ringed slave of the king, my master just as this earth is thrall to the sky, just as the body is thrall to the spirit.
come, say, what loss did earth suffer from this bond?
what kindnesses has not reason done to the members?
my son, it behooves not to beat the drum under a blanket plant your flag like a brave warrior in the midst of the plain.
with your spirit's ear listen to the thousand tumults echoing in the green dome's air from the clamor of the passionate ones.
when the cords of your robe are loosened by love's intoxication, behold then the angel's rapture, the houri's amazement.
how all the world trembles, on high and below, because of love, which transcends all below and on high.
when the sun has arisen, where then remains night?
when the army of grace has come, where then remains affliction?
i fell silent soul of the soul, do you speak, for every atom has grown articulate out of love for your face.
you have seized me by the ear whither are you drawing me?
declare what is in your heart, and what your purpose is.
prince, what cauldron did you cook for me last night?
the all knows what melancholy madness there is in love.
since the ears of heaven and earth and the stars are all in your hand, whither are they going?
even to that place whither you said, come.
the rest you seized only by one ear, me you seized by two from the roots of each ear i say, long may you endure.
when a slave grows old, his master sets him free when i became old, he enslaved me over again.
shall not children rise up white of hair at the resurrection?
but your resurrection has turned the old men's hair black.
since you bring the dead to life and make the old men young, i have fallen silent, and occupy myself with prayer.
if you do not know love, question the nights, ask of the pale cheek and the dryness of the lips.
just as the water relates about the stars and the moon, even so the physical forms relate about intellect and spirit.
from love the soul learns a thousand manners of culture, such culture as cannot be found from schools.
amongst a hundred persons, the lover stands out as plain as the shining moon in heaven amid the stars.
the mind, though it be apprised of all the doctrines of the sects, knows nothing and is bewildered by the doctrine of love.
the man who has quaffed theater of life of love to such a one the most limpid fountains are nothing worth.
toil not in the garden behold within the soul of the lover.
what is damascus?
for that is a paradise full of angels and hour is minds are amazed at those cheeks and rounded chins.
its delectable wine does not produce vomiting and crop sickness, the sweetness of its halve does not give rise to boils and fevers.
all men, from king to beggar, are in the tug of appetite love deers the soul out of all appetites and desires.
what pride does love take in its purchasers?
what sort of a prop are foxes to the lion?
upon the date palm of the world i do not discover one ripe date, for all my teeth have been blunted by unripe dates.
fly on the wings of love in the air and to the skies, be exempt like the sun from the need of all riding beasts.
lovers'hearts do not experience loneliness like dimples, they have no fear of severance and separation like compounds.
providence chose love for the sake of the souls, the cause purchased love out of all things caused.
love's deputy entered the breast so the this heart should shy from giving judgment and such prattle.
what a world.
what rare arrangement and ordering, that casts a thousand confusions into well ordered things.
beggar of love, for all the joys that the world contains, reckon that love is the goldmine, and those things but gilded.
love, you have filched my heart by trickery and cunning you lied the all for fend.
but sweetly and charmingly.
i desire to mention you, love, with gratitude but i am distraught with you, and my thought and reason are confused.
were i to praise love in a hundred thousand languages, love's beauty far surpasses all such stammering.
our desert has no bounds, our hearts and souls know no rest.
world upon world took shape and form which of these shapes is ours?
when you see on the road a severed head which goes rolling towards our arena, ask of it, ask of it our secrets, for from it you will hear our hidden mystery.
how would it be, if but one ear showed itself, familiar with the tongues of our birds?
how would it be if one bird took wing, having on its neck the collar of our solomon's secret?
what am i to say, what suppose?
for this tale transcends our bounds and possibilities.
yet how shall i keep silence?
for every moment this distraction of ours becomes yet more distraught.
what partridges and falcons are flying with wings outspread midst the air of our mountain land, midst the air, which is the seventh atmosphere, on the summit whereof is our portico.
leave this tale ask not of us, for our tale is broken entirely and will display to you the beauty.
laugh like a hundred drums are being beaten within our hearts, the roar of which we shall hear tomorrow.
cotton wool in the ear, hair in the eye that is the anxiety for tomorrow, the subtle whisper of grief fling love's flame into this cotton wool, like the people of purity.
why do you keep fire and cotton wool together?
these two are opposites, and the opposite never survived.
since the encounter of love is near, be joyous of presence for the day of meeting.
for us, death is gladness and encounter if for you it is an occasion of mourning, depart hence.
inasmuch as this present world is our prison, the ruining of prisons is surely a cause for joy.
fie whose prison was so delightful how shall be the court of him who adorned the world?
look not for constancy in this prison, for herein constancy itself never kept faith.
hark, for i am at the door.
open the door to bar the door is not the sign of good pleasure.
in the heart of every atom is a courtyard for you until you release it, it will remain in concealment.
you are the sp litter of dawn, the power of the day break you open a hundred doors and say, come in.
it is not i at the door, but you grant access, open the door to yourself.
sulfur came to a fire it said, come out to me, beloved.
my form is not your form, but i am all you, my form is ass veil.
i become you in form and reality when you arrive, my form is blotted out in the encounter.
the fire replied, i have come forth why should i veil my face from my very self?
hark, receive from me and deer my message to all the companions and all the kinsmen, if it is a mountain, draw it like a straw i have given you the quality of amber.
my amber draws the mountain did i not bring forth a mountain out of nonexistence?
i am wholly and completely within your heart come toward your own heart welcome.
i am the heartstrings and i take the heart, for the pearl of the heart was born of my ocean.
i move my shadow, otherwise how is it that my shadow is apart from me?
but i transport it from its place so that, at the time of unveiling, its union may become manifest, so that it may realize that it is a branch of me, so that it maybe come separated from all other.
go to the saki and hear the rest of it, that he may tell you it with the tongue of immortality.
the wheel of heaven, with all its pomp and splendor, circles around the all like a mill.
my soul, circumnavigate around such a kaaba beggar, circle about such a table.
travel like a ball around in his polo field, inasmuch as you have become happy and helpless.
your knight and rook are circumnavigating about the king, even though you move from place to place on this chessboard.
he set on your finger the royal signet so that you might become a ruler having authority.
whoever matriculates about the heart becomes the soul of the world, heart ravishing the heart forlorn becomes companion to the moth, he circles about the tip of the candle, because his body is earthy and his heart of fire has an inclination.
every star circles about the sky, because purity is the of purity.
the mystic's soul circles about annihilation, even as iron about a magnet, because annihilation is true existence in his sight, his eye shaving been washed clean of squinting and error the drunkard made ablution in urine, saying, er me out of impurity.
the all answered, first realize what impurity is it is not meet to pray crookedly and autopsy for prayer is a key and when the key is crooked, you will not attain the favor of opening the lock.
i fall silent all of you, leap up.
the cypress like stature of my idol cries come.
the water has been cut off from this world's riverspringtime, return and bring back the water.
glorious fountain, through the splendor of whose gushing every moment water bubbles up from the well of the soul.
when waters exist, loaves grow but never, my soul, did water grow from loaf.
guest, do not beggar like shed the water from the face of poverty for the sake of a morsel of bread.
the entire world from end to end is but half a morsel because of greedforhalf a morsel, the water vanished.
earth and heaven are bucket and pitcher water is outside earth and heaven.
do you also speed forth from heaven and earth, that you may behold water flowing from gracelessness, that the fish of your soul may escape from this pool, and sip water from the boundless sea.
in that sea whose fishes therein are immortal, immortal the water.
from that vision came the light of the eye, from that roof is the water in the spout from that garden are these roses of the cheeks, from that obtains water from that date tree are the dates of mary.
that water derives not from secondary causes and suchlike things.
your soul and spirit will then become truly happy, when the water comes flowing towards you from hence.
shake no more your rattle like a nightwatchman, for the water itself is the guardian of these fishes.
do you not know what the person says concerning tears of the eyes and burning hearts?
i am a skin far sundered from the flesh how should i not lament in separation and torment?
the stick also says, i was once a green branch that cavalcade broke and tore to pieces my saddle.
we are exiles in separation of kings, give ear to us to the all is the returning.
from the all in the first place we sprang in the world to him likewise we revert from the revolution.
our cry is like the bell in the caravan, or as thunder when the clouds travel the sky.
wayfarer, set not your heart upon a lodging place, weary at the time of attraction for you have departed from many a stage, from the sperm until the season of youth.
take it lightly, that you may escape easily give up readily, and so find the reward.
take hold of him firmly, forhe has taken firm hold on youfirst he and last he go, discover him.
a cowhand he draws the bow, forthat arrow of his quivers in the hearts of the lovers.
be the lover turk or greek or arab, this cry right enough is fellow tongue with him.
the wind is lamenting and calling to you, come in my wake, even to the river of water.
i was water i became wind i have come to deer the thirsty ones from this mirage.
speech is that wind which was formerly water it becomes water when it casts off the veil.
this shout arose from without the six directions flee from direction, and turn not your face from us.
lover, you are not less than the moth when does the moth ever avoid the flame?
the king is in the city for the sake of the owl how should i abandon the city and occupy the ruin?
if an ass has gone mad, strike the ox whip upon its head until its senses return.
if i seek his heart, his worthlessness increases still more the mind said regarding the unbelievers, strike their necks.
that moon has returned, whose like the sky never saw even in dreams he has brought a fire which no water can extinguish behold the body's tenement, and behold my soul love's cup has intoxicated the one and ruined the other.
when the master of the tavern became my heart's companion, my blood turned to wine out of love, my heart to roast.
when the eye is filled with his image, a voice proclaims, well done, goblet, and bravo, wine.
my heart suddenly decried the ocean of love it leaped away from me, saying, come, find me now.
the sun of the countenance, pride of in its track like clouds all hearts are running.
you who possess not love, it is lawful to you sleep on begone, for love and love's sorrow is our portion sleep on.
we have become motes of the sun of sorrow for the beloved you in whose heart this passion has never arisen, sleep on.
in endless quest of union with him we hurry like a river you who are not anguished by the question where is he?
sleeplessness path is outside the two and seventy sects since your love and way is mere trickery and hypocrisy, sleep on.
his dawn cup is our sunrise, his crepuscular our supper you whose yearning isforviands and whose passion is for supper, sleep on.
in quest of the philosopher's stone we are melting like copper you whose philosopher's stone is the bolster and the bedfellow, sleep on.
like a drunkard you are falling and rising on every side, tonight is past and now is the time for prayer sleep on.
since fate has barred slumber to me, young man, be gone for sleep has passed you by and you can now fulfill slumber sleep on.
we have fallen into love's hand what will love do?
since you are in your own hand, depart to the right hand sleep on.
i am the one who drinks blood my soul, you are the one who eats viands since viands for a certainty demand slumber, sleep on.
i have abandoned hope for my brain and my head too you aspire to a fresh and juicy brain sleep on.
i have rent the garment of speech and let words go you, who are not naked, possess a robe sleep on.
since midnight sickness has manifested itself in that master till daybreak he has been beating his head uncontrollably against our wall.
heaven and earth weep and lament because of his lamentation his breaths have become fiery you might say he is fireplace.
he has a strange sickness no headache, no feverish pain no remedy is to be found for it on earth, for it came upon him out of heaven.
when galen beheld him he took his pulse and he said, let go my hand and examine my heart my pain is beyond the rules.
he suffers neither from yellow nor black bile, neither a lion tamer nor a robber a hundred tumults have arisen in every corner four city because of this untoward happening.
he neither east nor sleeps he receives his nourishment from love, for this love is now both nurse and mother to the master.
i said, the all, grant compassion, that he may find rest for a brief hour he has spilled no man's blood, he has seized no man's property.
the answer came from heaven, let him be as he is, for medicine and remedy are useless in lovers'suffering.
seek no cure for this master do not bind him, do not counsel him, for where he has fallen is neither transgression nor piety.
when did you ever see love?
you have never heard from lovers keep silent, chant no spells this is not a case for magic.
come, source of light and radiance, for this illustrious spirit without your splendor is frozen and congealed.
i have come so that, tugging your ear, i may draw you tome, heart and unseal you, plant you in my heart and soul.
rosebush, i have come a sweet springtime unto you, to seize you very gently in my embrace and squeeze you.
i have come to adorn you in this worldly abode, to convey you above the skies like lovers'prayers.
i have come because you stole a kiss from an idol fair give it back with a glad heart, master, for i will seize you back.
what is a mere rose?
you are the all, you are the speaker of the command say.
if no one else knows you, since you are i, i know you.
you are my soul and spirit, you are my fatima chanter become altogether the fatima, so that i may chant you in my heart.
you are my quarry and game, though you have sprung from the snare return back to the snare, and if you go not, i will drive you.
the lion said to me, you are a wondrous deer be gone.
why do you run in my wake so swiftly?
i will tear you to pieces.
accept my blow, and advance forward like a hero's shield give your ear to naught but the bowstring, that i may bend you like a bow.
so many thousand stages there are from earth's bounds to man i have brought you from city to city, i will not leave you by the roadside.
say nothing, froth not, do not raise the lid of the cauldron simmer well, and be patient, fori am cooking you.
no, foryou are a lion's whelp hidden in a deer's body i will cause you suddenly to transcend the deer's veil.
you are my ball, and you run in the curved mallet of my decree though i am making you to run, i am still running in your track come, come, for he has blossomed come, come, to the beloved has arrived.
bring at once altogether soul and world deer over to the sun, for the sun has drawn a fine blade.
laugh at that ugly one showing off airs weep for that friend who is severed from the friend.
the whole city seethed when the rumor ran abroad that the madman had once again escaped from his chains.
what day is it, what day is it, such a day of uprising?
perchance the scroll of men's deeds has already fluttered from the skies.
beat the drums, and speak no more what place is there for heart and mind?
for the soul too has fled.
this house wherein continually rings the sound of the bell staff ask of the master what house this house is.
what is this idol form, if it is the house of the kaaba?
and what is this light of the all, if it is the marian temple?
in this house is a treasure which the whole of being cannot contain this house and this master are all a fiction and a presence.
lay not hand upon this house, for this house is a talisman speak not to the master, for he is drunk since last night.
the dust and rubbish of this house is all ambergris and musk the noise of the door of this house is all verse and melody.
in short, whoever enters this house has found a way to the king of the world, the solomon of the time.
master, bend down your head once from this roof, for in your fair face is the token of fortune.
i swear by your life that, but for beholding your countenance, though it be the kingdom of the earth, all is mere fantasy and fable.
the garden is baffled as to which is the leaf, which the blossom the birds are distraught as to which is the snare, which the bait.
this is the master of heaven, who is like unto venus and the moon, and this is the house of love, which is without bound and end.
the soul, like a mirror, has received your image in its heart the heart has sunk like a comb into the tip of your trees.
since in joseph's presence the women cut their hands, come to me, my soul, for the soul is there in the midst.
the whole household is drunk, and nobody is aware who enters the threshold, whether it beor y. it is inauspicious do not sit on the threshold, enter the house at once he whose place is the threshold keeps all in darkness.
though the all's drunkards are thousands, yet they are one the drunkards of lust are all double and treble.
enter the lions'thicket and do not be anxious for the wounding, for the anxiety of fear is the figments of women for there no wounding is, there all is mercy and love, beauteous imagination is like a bolt behind the door.
set not fire to the thicket, and keep silence, my heart draw in your tongue, for your tongue is a flame.
come, for today is for us a day of festival henceforward joy and pleasure are on the increase.
clap hands, say, today is all happiness from the beginning it was manifestly a fine day.
who is there in this world like our friend?
who has seen such a festival in a hundred cycles?
earth and heaven are filled with sugar in every direction sugarcane has sprouted.
the roar of that pearl scattering sea has arrived the world is full of waves, and the sea is invisible.
muhammad has returned from the ascension jesus has arrived from the fourth heaven.
every coin which is not of this place is counterfeit every wine which is not of the cup of the soul is impure.
what a splendid assembly, where the saki is good fortune, and his companions.
crop sickness afflicted me when i was desirous i did not know that the mind desires us.
now i have fallen asleep and stretched out my feet, since i have realized that good fortune has drawn me on.
in this river the heart is like a ruined waterwheel in whichever direction it turns, there is water before and even if you turn your back to the water, the water runs hurrying before you.
flow shall the shadow save its soul from the sun, seeing that's soul is in the hand of the sun?
if the shadow stretches forth its neck, the sun's face that instar is shrouded.
brave sun, before which this sun in heaven quivers with bearlike quicksilver.
the moon is like quicksilver on a palsied palm one night only, and for the rest it is poured forth in every thirty nights, two nights it is united and lean, for thereat it endures separation, and separation is torture.
though it is wretched, it is fresh of face laughter is the habit and wont of lovers.
it es laughing, and likewise dies laughing, for its return its laughing fortune.
keep silent, for the faults of vision always come from question and answer.
so long as the form of the beloved's image is with us, for us the whole of life is a joyful parade.
where friends unite together, there in the midst of the house, by allah, is a spreading plain and where the heart's desire comes true, there one thorn is better than a thousand dates.
when we are sleeping at the head of the beloved's lane, our pillow and blankets are the pleiades when we are twisted into the tip of the beloved's trees on the night of power, power belongs to us.
when the re flexion of his beauty shines forth, mountainside earth are silk and brocade.
when we ask of the breeze the scent of him, in the breeze is the echo of lute and reed pipe when we write his name in the dust, every particle of dust is darkened houri.
we chant a spell of him over the fire thereby the raging fire becomes water cool why shall i tell a long tale?
for when we mention his name to non being too, it increases being.
that subtlety in which love is contained is fuller of pith than thousand walnuts.
that instant when love showed its face, all these things vanished from the midst.
silence.
for the sealing has been completed the totality of desire is the all most high.
today a new madness has arrived, it has dragged the chains of a thousand hearts today it has rent the sides of the bags of white sugar candy.
again that bedouin has purchased the joseph of beautyforeighteen base pieces.
all night the souls in glory and felicity pastured midst narcissus and jasmine, until with the dawn of course every spirit leaped forth nimble and sprightly.
today narcissus bed and anemone have blossomed out of stones and clods, the tree has bloomed in the midst of winter, in january the fruits have ripened.
you might say that the all has created a new world in this ancient world.
prognosticate, recite this ode, for love has chosen you out of all the lovers.
on your golden cheek there is a toothache has that silvery breasted one perchance bitten you?
it is right that he should cherish that heart which has throbbed much in anguish for him.
silence.
go sauntering through the meadow for today it is the turn for the eyes to behold.
which is the road by which i came?
i would return, for it likes me not hereone moment's absence from the beloved's lane is unlawful according to the doctrine of lovers.
if only in all the village there is someone by allah, a sign would be completely sufficient.
how shall the finch escape?
for even the smirch is footfall this stout snare.
my heart, do not come wandering in this direction sit there, for it is a pleasant station.
choose that dessert which augments life, seek that wine which is full bodied the rest is all scent and image and color, the rest is all war and shame and opprobrium be silent, and sit down, for you are drunk, and this is the edge of the roof.
be gathered together, comrades, for this is not the time to sleep by allah, every comrade who sleeps is not of the true companions whoever is not turning about and weeping after the fashion of a water wheel shall not see the face of the garden, he will lose the way to the garden.
you who have sought the heart's desire in the world of water and clay, you are running towards that river in which there is no watermoon, come forth from the heart's sky and turn our night to day, that no nightingale may say, tonight is not a night of moonshine.
may my heart be unpaired of where the beloved is, if my heart is not quivering like the heart of quicksilver for the love of him.
love resides not in science and learning, scrolls and pages whatever men chatter about, that way is not the lovers'way.
know that the branch of love is in eternity and its roots in post eternity this tree rests not upon heaven and earth, upon legs we have deposed reason and circumscribed passion, forsuch majesty is not appropriate to this reason and these habits.
so long as you are desirous, know that this desire of yours nisan idol when you have become beloved, after that there is nonexistence for the desirous.
the mariner is always upon the planks of fear and hope once planks and mariner have passed away, nothing remains but drowning, you are at once sea and pearl, foryour being entirely is naught but the secret of the creator.
mind you do not slip, forthe road behind and ahead is wet with blood man robbers are nowadays more numerous strangleholds if they are intent on robbing people of reason and awareness, what then will they make of him who is unaware of himself?
do not consider yourself self so worthless and without antagonist the world is in quest of gold, and your self is thymine of gold.
the prophet of the all said, men are as mines the self is amine of silver and gold and is truly full of gems.
you find a treasure, and therein you find not life for all the treasure discover yourself, for this worldly treasure passes away from you.
discover yourself, and be wary yet what are you to do?
for there is a wakeful, quick handed thief on this way.
though the dawn is dark, day is to be reckoned at hand whoever lace is turned towards the sun is as the dawn.
the spirits become intoxicated through the breath of daybreak, inasmuch as the face of daybreak is towards the sun antis the companion of vision.
you fling down the counter so many times upon happy and perchance, for you are very bankrupt, and heaven's wheel carries off everything brain sieved and aware of nothing, you have fallen asleep one might say your morsel of daily bread is the brain of an ass.
labour more, and collect gold, and be joyful, for all your silver and gold and wealth is the serpent of hell.
for the all's sake, one night without eating and sleeping hundred nights because of lust your carnal soul is sleepless canoodles.
out of agony and grief, from behind every atom of dust comes sighing and lamentation, but your ear is deaf.
sprinkle the heart's blood on your cheek at dawn, for your provision for the way is heart's blood and the sigh of morn.
fill your heart with hope, and polish it well and clear, for your pure heart is the mirror of the sun of splendor.
say, who is the companion of ahmad the appeased in this world?
bossthe emperor, who is one of the greatest things lisa perchance this instant the tip of that tress become scattered?
for such a tartar musk has become amber diffusing lisa perchance the dawn breeze lifted the veil from flip face?
for thousands of unseen moons have begun to shine.
is there any soul which is not happy through flip sweet perfume?
though the soul has no clue as to the source of its happiness many a happy rose is laughing through the breath of the all, yet every soul does not know whence it has become laughing.
flow fairly the sun of flip cheek has shone today, through which thousands of hearts have become rubies of backhand.
yet why should not the lover set his heart upon him through whose grace the body has become wholly soul?
did the heart perchance one morning behold him as he is, so that from that vision of him it has today become after this wise?
ever since the heart beheld that peppercorn beauty of mine, it has taken the glass into its hand and become an exorcist.
if his sweet breeze blows upon the tree of the body, tremble two hundred leaves and two hundred branches have become.
if there is not an immortal soulforevery one slain by him, why has it become so easy for the lover to yield up his soul?
even the aware ones are unaware of his life and activities, for his life and activities have become their veil.
if the minstrel of love has not breathed upon the reed of heart, why has every tip of the hair become lamenting like the reed pipe?
if bossdoes not fling clods from the roof against the heart, then why have the souls become as it were his doorkeepers?
he said, who is at the door?
i said, your humble slave.
he said, what is your business?
i said, power, to greet you.
he said, how long will you drive?
i said, until you call.
he said, how long will you boil?
i said, till the resurrection.
i laid claim to love, i swore many oaths that for love's sake had lost kingship and nobility.
he said, for a claim the candy requires witness.
i said, mightiness is my tears, my sign the pallor of my cheeks.
he said, your witness is invalid your eye is wet skirted isis, by the splendor of your justice, they are just and without fault.
he said, who was your companion?
i said, your fantasy, king.
he said, who summoned you hither?
i said, the scent of your cup.
he said, what is your intention?
i said, fidelity and friendship he said, what do you desire of me?
i said, your universal grace.
he said, where is it most agreeable?
i said, caesar's palace he said, what did you see there?
i said, a hundred miracle she said, why is it desolate?
i said, for fear of the highwayman he said, who is the highwayman?
i said, this blame he said, where is safety?
i said, in abstinence and the allies he said, what is abstinence?
i said, the way of salvation.
he said, where is calamity?
i said, in the street of your love he said, how far you there?
i said, in perfect rectitude.
silence.
for if i were to utter his subtleties you would come forth from yourself, neither door nor roof would remain to you.
show your face, forthe orchard and rose garden are my desire open your lips, for abundant sugar is my desire.
sun of beauty, come forth one moment out of the cloud, for that glittering, glowing countenance is my desire.
out of your air i heard the sound of the falcon drum i returned, for the sultan's forearm is my desire.
you said capriciously, trouble me no more be gone.
that saying of yours, trouble me no more, is my desire, and your repulse, be gone, the king is not at home, and those mighty airs and brusqueness of the doorkeeper, are my desire in the hand of every one who exists there are filings of beauty that quarry of elegance and that mine are my desire.
this bread and water of heaven's wheel are like a treacherous torrent i am a fish, a leviathan, oman is my desire.
like jacob i am crying alas, alas the fair visage of joseph of is my desire.
by allah, without you the city is a prisonforme i wander abroad, mountain and desert are my desire, dion my heart is weary of these weak spirited fellow travelers the lion of the all and mistrust dustin are my desire.
my soul is sick of pharaoh and his tyranny that light of the countenance of moses son of ‘iran is my desire.
i am weary of these tearful people so full of complaining that ranting and roaring of the drunkards is my desire.
i am more eloquent than the nightingale, but because of vulgar envy a seal is on my tongue, and lamentation is my desire last night the shake went all about the city, lamp in hand, crying, i am weary of beast and devil, a man is my desire.
they said, he is not to be found, we too have searched.
he answered, he who is not to be found is my desire.
though i am penniless, i will not accept a small carnelian, for that rare, precious carnelian is my desire.
hidden from every eye, and all things seen are from him that hidden one manifest in works is my desire.
my state has gone beyond every desire and yearning from mine and place to the elements is my desire.
my ear heard the tale of faith and became drunk where is the portion of sight?
the form of faith is my desire.
in one hand the wine cup, in the other the beloved's curl to dance so in the midst of the arena is my desire.
that rebekah says, i am dead of expectation the hand and bosom and plectrum of ‘ottoman are my desire.
i am at once love's rebekah, and love is my ballplayer those flavors of the plucking of the all merciful are my desire cunning minstrel, number the rest of this ode after this fashion, for it is after this fashion i desire.
show your face from the east, sun of the pride of ian the hoop, the presence of solomon is my desire.
though from left and right there is useless criticism and vilification, that man who has lost his heart turns not away from love.
the moon scatters light, and the dog barks at it what harm does that do to the moon?
such is a dog's speciality.
the lover is a mountain, not a straw to be blown away by the wind it is a flock of flies that the wind has waylaid.
if it is the rule that blame should arise from love, it is also the rule for love to be deaf to it.
desolation of both worlds on this road is true cultivation to eschew all benefits is a benefit in love.
jesus from the fourth sphere calls, welcome.
wash your hands and mouth, for now is the time for the table.
go, become effaced in the friend in the tavern of not being wherever two drunkards are together, there is bound to be brawl you enter the devil's court crying, justice, justice.
seek justice from the all, for here is nothing but wild beasts.
the prophet said, take not counsel from a woman this carnal soul of ours is a woman, even though it be an abstinent, ion drink so much wine that you cease to chatter after all, are you not a lover?
and is not this love a tavern?
though you should utter verse and prose like safari gold, there where afar is it is all worthless tales.
my soul, spiritual beauty is passing fair and glorious, yet your own beauty and loveliness is something beside.
you who spend years describing spirit, show one quality that's equal to his essence.
through his phantasm the light of the eye increases, yet floral that in the presence of union with him it is clouded.
i i stand open mouthed in reverence or that beauty every moment the all is greater is on my tongue and in my heart.
the heart has acquired an eye constant in desire of you ah, how that desire nourishes the heart and eye.
speak not of hawk man and moon, spirit and per, for these resemble him not he is something other.
slave caressing it is that your love has practiced, else where is the heart that is worthy of that love?
every heart that has been sleepless for one night in desire for you is bright as day, and the air by it is illumined.
everyone who has become without object is as your disciple this object is realized without the form of objection every limb of hell who has burned and fallen into this love, has fallen into coauthor, for your love is katharine my foot does not reach the ground out of hope for union, withal through separation from you my hand is on my head.
my heart, be not sorrowful at this oppression of foes, and meditate on this, that the sweetheart is judge.
if my enemy is glad because of my saffron pale face, is not my saffron pale face derived from the red rose?
since my beloved's beauty surpasses description, how fat ism grief, and how lean my praise.
yes, since it is the rule that the more the pain of the wretched sufferer is, the less is his lamentations din shone moon like from no, what is then indeed?
that face outshines the moon.
that spirit which wears not true love as a garment is better not to have been its being is nothing but a disgrace.
be drunk in love, for love is all that exists without the commerce of love there is no admittance to the beloved.
they say, what is love?
say, the abandonment of freewill.
he who has not escaped out of free will, no free will has he.
the lover is an emperor the two worlds are scattered over him the king pays no heed to the scattering.
love it is and the lover that remain till all eternity set not your heart on aught but this, for it is merely borrowed.
how long will you embrace a dead beloved?
embrace those which naught embraces.
what was born of spring dies in the season of autumn love's gardener receives no replenishment from spring.
the rose that comes of spring, the thorn is its companion the wine that comes of pressed grapes is not exempt from crop sickness be not an expectant spectator on this path for by allah, there is no death worse than expectancy, set your heart on the true coin, if you are not counterfeit give ear to this subtlety, if you lack an earring.
tremble not on the body's steed fare lighter afoot the all gives wings to him who rides not on the body.
let go care and become wholly clear of heart, like the face of mirror without image and picture when it has become clear of images, all images are contained in it that clear faced one is not ashamed of any man's lace.
would you have your self clear of blemish?
gaze upon him, for he is not ashamed or afraid of the truth.
since the steely face gained this skill from purity, what shall the heart's face, which is without dust, discover?
i said, what shall it discover?
no, i will not say silences better, lest the heart ravisher should say, he cannot keep secrets every moment the voice of love is arriving from left and right we are departing for the skies who has a mind for sightseeing?
we were once in heaven, we were friends of the angels let us all return thither, for that is our city.
we are even higher than the heavens, we are greater than angels why should we not transcend both?
our lodgings majesty.
how tar is the world of dust from the pure substance.
upon what have you alighted?
load up what place is this?
young luck is our friend, to yield up the soul is our business the leader of our caravan is mustang, pride of the world.
at his moon the moon was split, it could not endure to behold him the moon attained such luck she, a humble beggar.
the sweet scent of the breeze is from the curl of his tress, the glitter of this phantasm is from that cheek like the forenoon.
behold in our hearts every moment a splitting of the moon, forwhy does your eye soar beyond the vision of that vision?
mankind, like waterfowl, are sprung from the sea of those how should the bird that has risen from that sea make its dwelling here?
nay rather, we are pearls in that sea, we are all present therein else, why does wave upon wave surge from the sea of the heart?
the wave of alas came along and caulked the body's ship when the ship is wrecked once more, the turn of union and encounter will come.
my being is but a goblet in the beloved's hand look at my eyes, if you do not believe it.
i am like a goblet, heart full of blood and body slender, in the hand of love, which is neither pale nor lean nor slender.
this love consumes nothing but mosley blood come, will tell it in your ear amazing, it is not an infidel.
a thousand forms like adam and eve are born the world is full of his image, but he is not endowed with form.
he knows what is salutary for the desert sand grain and the drop of the ocean, and brings replenishment, for his knowledge is not deaf.
every moment he binds and releases our hearts why should the heart not know him by his actions, if it is not an ass?
through being bound and released by the hand of the ass driver the ass has become a gnostic, and knows that he is, and none beside seeing him, it moves its head and ear glassily it reconnaissances call, forit is not disguised.
from his hand it has consumed sweet provender and water amazing.
do you not receive such provision from the all?
a thousand times he has fettered you in pain, and you have cried out why do you disapprove?
the all is not constrained to release you.
like the infidel you bow your head only in time of affliction net worth half a grain is the head that belongs not yonder.
a thousand spiritual forms are flying in the air like majoritarian, although they are not afar but how should the cage bird know about the air?
it supposes gloomily, i have no wings.
every moment it puts its head out of the fissure of the cage there is room for its head, but not its body, for the head is not the whole.
the fissure of your five senses is the fissure of that cage you see a thousand prospects, but there is no way to the prospect.
your body is dry tinder, and that vision is fire when you look well into the matter, all is nothing but flame.
not tinder is it, for it has become fire in burning know that the tinder is light, although it is not shining.
for the sake of the ears of those who shall come after me speak and set down our life is not postponed for love has seized them by the ear and is bringing them by secret ways where reason is no guide.
muhammad's eye has closed in sleep, and the rebekah has become feeble sleep not these words are a treasure of gold, even if they are not gold in truth.
mankind are stars, and bossis the sun which stairs there that is not illumined by his sun?
what pearl are you?
for in no man's hand is the price of you.
what does the world possess that is not your gift?
is there a worse punishment than his who es exiled from your face?
do not punish your servant, forall that he is unworthy of you.
every moment i would scatter my heart and soul in your dust dust be on the head of the soul that is not the dust of your feet.
blessed to all birds is your air how unbolts is the bird that snot in your air.
midst the billows of contingencies even the master shall not escape by swimming, if he is not familiar with you.
the world has no permanence, and if it has, count it as perishing, since it is not intimate with your permanence.
how happy is the king that is mated by your rook.
how lair of presence is he who is never without your presence.
i will not flee from your blow, for very raw indeed is the heart that is not roasted in the fire of your trial.
the heart that has not been naughty turns its face to placefrom gracelessness you drive it, saying, begone.
this is no place for you.
there is no end to your praise and praises what atom is there that is not reeling with your praise?
as he expresses it in verse, tyrannies not, for i cannot endure your tyranny.
three days it is now since my fair one has become changed sugar is never bitter how is it that that sugar is sour?
i dipped my pitcher into the fountain that contained the water of life, and i saw that the fountain was full of blood.
in the garden where two hundred thousand roses grew, in place of fruit and blossom there are thorns and stones and desert i chant a spell and whisper it over the face of that perforincantation is always the business of the exorcist yet to all my incantations my pee came not back into the bottle, since his activities transcend chants and spells.
between his brow there are ancient angers the frown on the brow of is destruction to maj nun come, come, forwithout you i have no life see, see, forwithout you my eyes are a veritable flood.
by the right of your moon like countenance, brighten my eye, though my sins are greater than the whole of mankind's.
my heart turns about itself, saying, what is my sin?
for every cause is conjoined with a consequence.
a proclamation comes to me from the marshal of eternal judgment seek not about your own self, for this cause belongs not to now.
the all gives and seizes, brings and carries away his business snot to be measured by reason's scales.
come, come, for even now by the grace of be and it a paradise opens its gate which is ungrudging.
of the essence of the thorn you behold marvelous flowers of the essence of the stone you see the treasure of koran divine grace is eternal, and thereof a thousand keys lie hidden between the pdf and the ship of the nun.
love is nothing but felicity and loving kindness, it is nothing but gladness and right guidance.
do not teach love, the sheriff had no tradition concerning it.
licit and illicit operate till death there is no terminus to the science of lovers.
lovers are drowned in sugar water egypt has nothing to complain about sugar.
how should the drunkard's soul not utter thanks for a wine to which there is no boundary and limit?
whomsoever you have seen sorrowful and scowling is not clover, and belongs not to that province otherwise, every bud is a veil of a garden, jealousy and envy have no contagion.
the beginner in this path of love is he who is not apprised of beginning.
become naughty from self hood, because there is no sin worse than being do not be a shepherd, be a flock sheepherder is nothing but bar to providential care.
the all is sufficient for many a servant's ill, but the servant hasn't this knowledge and sufficiency.
he says, this is problematic and allegorical this is clear, this is not allegory.
a blind man struck his foot against a pitcher he said, the doorkeeper is not careful.
what are pitchers and glasses doing on the footpath?
the road is not clear of these pots.
remove the pitchers from the path the doorkeeper is not attending to his job.
the doorkeeper answered, blind man, no pitcher is on the path, the fact is that you have no knowledge of the path.
you have left the path and are going to the pitcher that is plain error.
master, your drunkenness in the way of religion is the analyzing from beginning to end.
you are a sign, and a seeker after a sign there is no better sign than the seeker after a sign.
you are astray from the path, otherwise in the path of striving no strive goes without his wages.
just as an atom's weight he shall see it, an atom's weight of slipping goes not unpunished an atom of good is not without a reward open your eyes, if you are not blind.
every herb is a token of water what is there that is not tributary to that?
enough, this water has many tokens the thirsty man requires no counterintelligence bird of my heart has again begun to flutter, the parrot of my soul has begun to chew sugar.
my mad and drunk camel has begun to rend the chain of reason a gulp of that incautious wine has begun to flow over my head and eyes.
the lion of the gaze, despite the dog of the companions of the cave, has begun to drink my blood again.
the water is flowing again in this river by the riverbank the grass has begun to shoot.
the dawn breeze is blowing again in the garden, it has begun to blow over rose and rosebud love sold me for a single fault love's heart burned, and has begun to buy back.
he drove me away compassion came to him and called love has begun to look kindly upon me.
my enemy has seen that i am with the friend he has beg unto gnaw his hand of envy.
my heart has escaped from the trickery of fortune, it has begun to creep into love's bosom.
the talebearer brow making hints has begun to curve over that eye.
when love called my heart towards him, my heart began toffee from all creation.
creatures are sticks the blind man flings away the stick whence begins to see.
creatures are like milk the infant turns from milk when it has begun to digest viands.
the spirit is like a falcon taking wing, for it has begun to hearth drum of the king.
enough, for the veil of speech has begun to spin a curtain around you.
the hour is late, the hour is late, the sun has gone down into the well, the sun of the soul of lovers has entered the seclusion of the all.
a day is hidden in night, a turk is amongst hindus night, launch your assaults, for that turk is in the tent.
if you catch a glimpse of this brightness, you will set sleep afire for by night faring and servitude venus became the companion of the moon.
we are fleeing by night and running apache, and the ranginess on our track, for we carried off the gold, and the watchman became aware.
we have learned night faring and consumed a hundred watchmen our cheeks are lit up like candles because that pawn of ours has become king.
happy indeed is that smiling one who has pressed cheek against that cheek.
great and glorious is that heart which has departed unto that sweetheart.
who is there on the path of the heart who has not a sigh in his heart?
that man is truly successful who is drowned in that sigh.
when he is drowned in the sea, the sea carries him up to the surface, like joseph of the well who emerged from the well to greatness they say, man's origin is the dust, and he returns to the dust.
how should he become dust who is the dust of this doorway?
the crops appear all of one kind until the harvest time arrives one half of it has become fine grain, the other half is chaff.
fair ones, fair ones, a fair one has gone mad his bowl has fallen from our roof, he has gone to the madhouse.
he circled about the pool like men atheist seeking and searching suddenly like a dry crust he became a sop in our pool learned man, stop up your ears against this do not listen to this incantation, for he has become a legend through our charm the ears do not escape from this ring which has robbed minds of their reason having laid his head on the millstone, he vanished like a grain into the measure.
regard it not as a sport, regard it not as a sport here choose gambling away life heads in plenty through love of his curl shave become turned upside down like a comb.
be not puffed up by your reason many a well trusted master who was a pillar of the world has become more lamenting than the moaning pillar.
i, who have cut away from life, rose like have rent my robe, thence have become such that my reason has become a stranger to my soul.
those drops of individual reason have become vanquished in the sea of reason the atoms of these fragmentary souls have become annihilated in the beloved.
i will keep silent, i will perform the command and hide this candle a candle in whose light the sun and the moon are moths who is that, who is that who makes the breast sorrowful, then when you make complaint before him, he turns your bitter sweet?
first he appears as a deaf adder, lastly he is a treasure of pearls sweet king, who in a moment transforms that bitterness to goodness.
let it be a demon, he makes it into a houri, let it be a funeral, he makes it into a marriage feast and he makes knowing and world beholding one blind from his mother's womb.
he makes the dark bright, he makes the thorn into a rosebud he draws the thorn out of your palm, and fashions you pillow of roses.
for the sake of abraham his friend he causes the fire to flame, and converts nimrod's furnace into blossoms and eglantine.
he who gives light to the stars and succor to the helpless, he benefits his servant, and too applauds his servant.
he causes all the sins of the sinners to scatter like december leaves into the ears of those who speak him ill he recites forgiveness of sin.
he says, say, faithful one, pardon the sin of one who slipped when a servant enters upon prayer, he secretly says amen.
it is his amen which gives a man joy in his prayer like a fig, he is inwardly and outwardly alike sweet and pleasant.
it is rapture which in good and evil gives strength to hand and foot, for this rapture mates the strength of a rust am to the body of a poor wretch.
with rapture the poor wretch is a rust am, without rapturous is one full of grief but for rapture, how would the friend of the soul establish the soul?
i sent forth my heart timely (for it knows swiftly to travel the way), to carry the description of bossdin to the of fidelity advice from anyone is never of profit to lovers love is not the kind of torrent that anyone can dam up.
no man of intellect will ever know the head's ecstasy of the drunkard no man of reason will ever know the heart's rapture of the reason lost kings would become indifferent to kingship if they caught whiff of those wines which lovers drink in the heart's assembly.
strauss bids farewell to his kingdom for the sake of shine farad too for her sake strikes the ace against the mountain.
man flees from the circle of men of intellectforlove of vamp laughed at the mustachios of every puffed up man.
frozen is the life that has passed without that sweet spirit rotten is the kernel that is obious of this almond cake if yonder heaven were not spinning bewildered and in love like us, it would grow weary of its revolving, and say, it is enough for me how long, how long?
the world is like a reed pipe, and he blows in its every hole truly it's every lament derives from those two sugar sweet lips.
behold how, when he blows into every clod, every heart, he bestows a need, he bestows a passion which raises lamentation of anguish if you tear the heart away from the all, to whom will you then commit it?
tell me this.
soulless is the person who has be enable to tear his heart away from the all for a single moment.
i will make enough go you nimbly, by night climb on to this roof raise a fair clamor in the city, my soul, with a loud voice.
the springtime of lovers has come, that this dust bowl may become a garden the proclamation of heaven has come, that the bird of the soul may rise in flight.
the sea becomes full of pearls, the salt marsh becomes sweets coauthor, the stone becomes a ruby from the mine, the body becomes wholly soul.
if the eyes and souls of lovers are raining a flood like aloud, yet the heart within the body's cloud is flashing like lightning do you know why the lovers'eyes have become like aloud in love?
because that moon generally is concealed in clouds happy and laughing hour, when those clouds have beg unto weep.
power, what a blessed state, when those lightnings are laughing.
of those hundreds of thousands of drops, not one drop falls upon the earth for if it should fall upon the earth, the whole world would be laid in ruin.
though the whole world be laid in ruin, yet every desolation through love becomes fellow mariner with noah, and so is intimate with the flood.
did the flood abate, the heavens would not go round through that wave beyond direction these six directions keeping motion.
you who remain fast under these six directions, at once sorrow and do not sorrow, for those seeds beneath the ground will one day become a plantation of date trees one day that root will raise its head from the dust, it will become a fresh green branch what if two or three branches should wither, the rest of the tree will be pregnant with life and when that dry branch is set afire, the fire will be joyous like the soul if that is not this, it will become this if this is not that, it will become that.
something has closed my mouth, as if to say, what, drunkard on the edge of the roof?
whatever it may be that bewilders you, that thing is bewildered at him.
plus my beloved leaves me not so much as to scratch my own head it is the body of my beloved that presses me in its breast.
now he draws me in his train like a string of camels, anon the king places me in front like the commander of his troops.
anon he sucks me like a sealing, to plant his seal through me anon he makes me into a ring and fastens me on his door.
he takes blood and makes a sperm, he takes sperm and fashions a creature he slays the creature and fashions reason, remakes manifest the resurrection.
now he drives me away with a reed like a dove from the house, anon with a hundred entreaties he calls me to his presence.
now he carries me like a ship on a voyage over the sea, anon he hates me and ties me to his own anchor.
now he makes me water for the sake of the seeker after purity, anon he makes me a thorn in the path of his luckless ones.
the eternal eight paradises did not become the prospect of that king how happy is this heart of mine, which he makes his prospect.
not by the attestation of faith did i become a believer in that beauty of the soul only then did i become a believer in it when i became an unbeliever in myself, ion whoever joined his ranks became secure from destruction by him i saw the sword in his hand, i burned that shield of mine i was like pinioned with gabriel, i had six hundred wings now that i have reached him, what shall i do with my wings?
many days and nights i was guardian of the pearl of my soul now in the current of the ocean of pearls i am indifferent to my own pearl.
how long will you essay to describe him?
for he come snot within description make enough, that i may ride over my commotion the friend is toggling me like a camel in what train is hedging his drunken camel?
he wounded my soul and body, he broke my glass, rebound my neck to what task is he drawing me?
his net is carrying me like a fish to the shore his snare is drawing my heart towards the master of the chase.
he who makes the train of clouds, like camels under the sky, to water the plain, is drawing me over mountain and cavern the thunder beats its drum particle and whole have become ae the scent of spring is wafting in the twig's heart and the marrow of the rose.
he who makes the recesses of the seed to be the cause of the fruit, he is dragging the secret of the tree's heart up to the gallows the grace of spring tide breaks the pain of the garden's crop sickness, even though the cruelty of winter is still drawing towards ludicrousness my heart, be seated near that person who has experience of the heart, go under that tree which bears fresh blossoms.
go not in every direction as do idlers in this druggists'market sit in the shop of someone who has sugar in his shop.
if you have no balance, then every one waylays you one man adorns a counterfeit coin, and you imagine that he has gold hesitatingly he sets you by the door, saying, i am coming do not sit expectant at the door, for that house has two doors do not bring your cup to every pot that seethes, and do not sit there, for every seething pot has within it something else.
not every reed holds sugar not every under has an over not every eye has sight not every sea holds pearls.
lament, singing nightingale, because the drunkard's lament has some effect, some effect even on rocks and stones.
put aside your head if you have no room, for if the thread snot contained in the eye of the needle that is because it has ahead.
this wakeful heart is a lantern hold it under your skirt pass away from this wind and air, for the air puts it into commotion.
when you have passed away from the wind you have becomes dweller in a fountain, you have become companion to a confederate who pours cooling water on the heart.
when you have water on your heart, you are like a green tree which constantly yields new fruit, and journeys within the heart.
a fair idol that all the night teaches tricks to venus and then, his two eyes by witchery sew up the two eyes of heaven.
look out for your hearts, mosley, for i at all events am so commingled with him that no heart is commingled with me.
first i was born of his love, finally i gave my heart to him when fruit is born of a branch, from that branch it hangs.
i am fleeing from my own shadow, for the light is hidden from the shadow where shall he rest at last who flees from his shadow?
the tip of his tress is saying, ha, quick, to the rope tricycle.
the cheek of his candle is saying, where is the moth, that it may burn?
for the sake of that rope trick be brave, and become a hoop fling yourself into the fire, when his candle is kindled.
when you have seen the joy of burning you will no more endure without the flame even if the water of life came to you, it would not stir you from the flame.
my heart is like an oyster shell, the beloved's phantom is the pearl now i am no more contained, for this house is filled with him.
night split the lip of my soul with the sweetness of his talk ian surprised at him who says, truth is bitter.
mortals'food comes from without, but the lover's food is from within he regurgitates and chews, for the lover is like camel be swift farting like a per, denude yourself of your body nakedness is not allowed to him who has the mange.
sarah aldrin has come to the chase all the lions are his quarry that man is his servant who is free from the two worlds.
once again the drunkards'head from drunkenness has come into prostration has perchance that minstrel of the souls struck up music from the veil?
the reckless gamblers of head and soul once more are rioting being has departed into annihilation, and annihilation has come into being.
once more the world is full of the sound of seraph's trumpet the trustee of the unseen has become visible, for goods and chattels have come to the soul.
see how the earthy particles have received fresh life all their earthiness has turned to purity, all their loss become gain.
that world is without color yet out of the crucible of the sight, like light, this red and blue have issued from the color mixing soul.
the body's portion of this is color, the soul's portion sidelight for the cauldron's portion from the kitchen fire is smoke.
consume, heart, forso long as you are raw, the scent of the heart will not come from you when did you ever know anyone to produce the scent of incense without fire?
the scent is always with the incense, it never departed or returned thither one man says, it came late, another says, it came early.
the emperor has not fled from the ranks, only the helmet and armour are a veil the veil over his moon like face is a helmet against the blows of mortals.
the month of december has departed, and january to come, for the spring has come, the earth is green and joyous, the time of the tulips has come.
see how the trees stagger and shake their hands as if drunk.
the zephyr has recited a spell, so that the rose bower cannot rest.
the sharpener said to the jasmine, see how twisted together i am.
the blossoms said to the meadow, the grace of the omnipotent has descended.
the violet genuflected when the hyacinth bowed humbly, when the narcissus gave a wink, saying, a time for taking note has come.
what did the tossing willow say, that it became lightheaded with drunkenness?
what did that caricatured cypress behold, that it departed and returned firm of foot?
the painters have taken the brush, with whose hands my soul is intoxicated, for their lovely menageries have lent beauty to the grove.
thousands of sweet feathered birds seated on their pulpits are praising and reciting lauds, that the time of divulging has come when the soul's bird says ya h. the ring dove replies where, where?
the former says, since you have not caught the scent, your portion is waiting.
the roses are bidden to show their hearts it is not seemly those the heart, when the unveiling of the friend of the cave has come the rose said to the nightingale, look at the green lily though it has a hundred tongues, it is steadfast and keeps its secrets the nightingale replied, go forth, be busy disclosing my secret, for this love which i possess is reckless like you.
the tree lowered its face to the vine prostrate one, stand up.
the vine answered, this prostrating of mine is not voluntary i am pregnant with that fraught which smites at the drunkards my inward is as fire, your outward is mere the saffron came forth, the mark of lovers on its cheek the rose pitied it and said, ah, this poor creature, how abject it is.
this encounter reached the ears of the laughing faced, ruby apple, which said to the rose, it knows not that the beloved sloganeering.
when the apple advanced this claim, that i think well of the power, to put it to the proof stones rained from every side.
someone stoned him if he was a true lover, he laughs why should not shine laugh when pelted by hussar?
the throwing of clods by the fair ones is meant for calling the lover the cruelty of lovers to one another is not a sign of aversion if mikhail that moment tore joseph's shirt and collar, know that it was in sport and play that she unveiled his secret.
the apple absorbs the blow and comes not down, saying, ian happy hanging here, for this honor of being hung on high has come upon me, like i am hanging from the branch of the gallows of the merciful such kissing and embracing has come upon me far from the lips of the vile ones.
kissing is done with hide your heart like a turnover within the breast utter secretly the words innumerable.
today your beauty has another lineament, today your delectable lip has another sweetmeat today your ruby rose has sprung from another twig, today your cypress stature has another loftiness.
today that moon of yours indeed is not contained in the sky, and that wheel like die of yours has another expanse today i know not from which side the commotion has arisen, i only know that through it the world has another riot.
that lion overthrowing deer it is evident in its eyes that outside the two worlds it has another desert.
this mad heart departed both heart and madness became lost, forit has another madness loftier than this madness.
if he has no foot, the lover will fly on eternal wings, and if he has no head, the lover has other heads.
the sea of the two eyes sought him and became empty twas not aware that another sea contains that pearl.
in love i turned the two worlds upside down why did you seek him here?
for he holds another place, in my heart's today is love, my heart's tomorrow the beloved my heart's today holds in its heart another tomorrow.
if king sarah aldrin is hidden, it is no wonder, for out of the jealousy of the all every moment he has another master of the harem morn arising friends, who is there that discovers the dawn, who discovers us dancing in confusion like atoms?
who has the luck to come to the brink of a river to drink water from that river, and to discover the reflection of the moon?
who is there that like jacob from the shirt of joseph seeks the scent of his son, and instead discovers the light of his eyes?
ion or athirst like the bedouin casts a bucket into the well, an din the bucket discovers a beauty like an ass load of sugar?
or like moses seeking fire, who seeks out a bush, comes together the fire, and discovers a hundred dawns and sunrises?
jesus leaps into the house to escape from the foe suddenly from the house he discovers a passage to heaven.
or like a solomon he splits a fish, and in the belly of that fish he discovers a ring of gold.
sword in hand, ‘mar comes intending to slay the prophet he falls into the all's snare, and discovers a kindly regard from fortune or like adam's son he drives towards a deer to make the deer his prey, and instead discovers another prey.
or like a thirsty oyster shell he comes with gaping mouth to take a drop of water into himself, and discovers a pearl within himself or a man foraging who turns towards desolation, and suddenly in a desolation he discovers news of a treasure.
traveler, have done with legends, so that intimate alike and stranger may discover without your exposition the light of did we not open.
whoever strides sincerely towards the mistress, though his foot may grow weary, he will discover two wings from love.
friend, is sugar sweeter or he who makes the sugar?
friend, is the moon fairer or he who makes the moon?
forgo sugars, forgo moons he knows something other, remakes something other.
in the sea are marvels besides pearls, but none like the monarch who makes the sea and the pearls.
besides the water is another water springing from a marvelous waterwheel without flaw and unseeing it provides sustenance to the heart.
without knowledge it is not possible to fashion an image oaf bath how shall be that knowledge which makes intellect and awareness?
without knowledge you cannot extract oil from fat consider then that knowledge which makes sight from fat.
souls are distraught, without eating and slumber, on account of the marvelous feast which he makes at the time of dawn.
happy dawn, when that despair of every moon makes his two hands a belt around my waist.
yonder sky laughs at the mustachios of that deluded one that laughing stock makes himself an ass in the train of two or three assessor that ass flings himself into gold as if into barley he is heedless of the king who makes gems of stones.
i have made enough, enough, i have quit exhalation the rest that darling will speak, who makes of the ear an eye.
that wandering slave has returned, returned he has come before you burning and melting like a candle.
smile upon him, soul, like anemone and sugar candy donor shut the door, soul, for he comes in need.
and even if you close the door, he will submit to your decree the servant is all servile need, the king is full of pride and disdain every molten candle has become the brightness of the eye, for he who has suffered melting has become privy to the secret.
if i make a difference between envenomed water from his hand and wine, in the path of the spirit my spirit has come, by allah, but insincerely.
how should any animal drink his water of life?
how should the eye which is closed behold his face?
i have abandoned travel, i have come to dwell with the friend, i have become secure from death because that long life has come.
my heart, since you are in this stream why then do you stillestforwater?
how long will you say, come to the feast?
the time of prayer has come.
why must i dance in the glow of his sun?
so that when the mote dances, he may remember me.
every atom has become pregnant of the glow of his face, every atom of that delight gives birth to a hundred atoms.
behold, in the mortar, how the body out of love for one fleet of spirit beats and bruises itself to become an atom.
if you are pearl and coral, only become grain fine here, because in this presence only a mote is behold the pearl of the soul in the oyster shell of the body, how it bites it's fingers at the hand of affliction.
when the spirit takes flight from you, this imprisoned essence returns to its origin like a mote you may call to it, bust will not come.
and though its load be very firm and it digs in blood, though for a whole life it goes in blood, not one hair of it will be defiled.
it's only dwelling place is in the well of babylon until those becomes a magician, it reposes not in any place.
if the centipede shines forth from your zodiac, even the cloud will become like the moon, even the moon will wax in brightness every moment the soul is decaying and growing before you, and how should any man plead with you for the sake of a single soul?
wherever you set your foot a head springs from the earth forgone head's sake how should anyone wash his hands of you?
on the day when the soul takes flight in joy at your scent, those knows, the soul knows, what scent wafts from the beloved.
once your crop sickness diminishes from the brain, the head raises a hundred laments, every hair is groaning.
i have emptied house, that i may be filled with your furniture i am waning, that your love may wax and increase.
my soul in the train of the stag is scudding like a ship without feet over the sea.
do not despair, my soul, for hope has manifested itself the hope of every soul has arrived from the unseen.
do not despair, though mary has gone from your hands, for that light which drew jesus to heaven has come.
do not despair, my soul, in the darkness of this prison, for that king who redeemed joseph from prison has come.
jacob has come forth from the veil of occlusion, joseph who rent balalaika's veil has come.
you who all through night to dawn have been crying power, mercy has heard thatpower and has come.
pain which has grown old, rejoice, for the cure has comeo fastened lock, open, for the key has come.
you who have abstained fasting from the table on high, break your fast with joy, for the first day of the feast has come.
keep silence, keep silence, for by virtue of the command be.
that silence of bewilderment has augmented beyond all speechless now, die now, in this love die when you have died in this love, you will all receive new life.
die now, die now, and do not fear this death, for you will come forth from this earth and seize the heavens.
die now, die now, and break away from this carnal soul, for this carnal soul is as a chain and you are as prisoners.
take an ace to dig through the prison when you have broken the prison you will all be kings and princes.
die now, die now before the beauteous king when you have died before the king, you will all be kings and renowned.
die now, die now, and come forth from this cloud when you come forth from this cloud, you will all be radiant full moons.
be silent, be silent silence is the sign of death it is because of life that you are fleeing from the silent one.
the weary ones have all gone close the door of the house laugh all in union at weary reason.
come forth to the ascension, since you are of the prophet's family kiss the cheek of the moon, since you are on a high roof.
since he split the moon, why are you clouds?
since he is sprightly and neat, why are you underclothing?
weary ones, why did you depart?
for not like true men on this path did you like farad and shad dad in a moment cleave through the mountain.
since you are not moon face, turn not away from thermodynamic since you are not in anguish, do not bandage your own heads.
like that it did happen and like this so it comes not right don't know how you are, do not know how many you are.
when you beheld that fountain, why did you not become water?
when you saw that self, why did you approve your own selves?
since you are in the mine of sugarcane, why are you sour office?
since you are in the water of life, why are you dry and withered?
do not contend so, do not flee from felicity what possibility of flight is there, seeing that you are in the toils of the lasso?
io you are caught in the lasso from which there is no security do not writhe, do not writhe, do not scrape against the shuttle.
like self sacrificing moths rub against this candle why are you dedicated to the companion?
why are you attached to the chain?
burn at this candle, light up your heart and soul, put on anew body when you have flung away this old one.
why are you afraid of the fox?
you are of lion stock.
why are you lame asses, since you are of the loins of the swift horse?
the friend himself is coming, the door of felicity is opening, for that friend is the key you are all locks.
be silent, for speech has swallowed you down the purchasers like a parrot, and you are all sugar candy since your image dwelt within the house of our breasts, wherever we sit has become like highest paradise.
those thoughts and imaginings that were as gog and magog each one has become like a houri's cheek and a dollop china.
that image on account of which men and women all weep, if it was once an evil companion, has now become an excellent companion above all a garden has grown, below all is a treasure what manner of thing are you, that through you the world has become so?
from that day when we beheld him we augment daily the thorn that sought him out has become a veritable rose bower every unripe grape has become a ripe grape from the sun and has become full of sugar, and that black stone too through then has become a precious ruby.
many an earth there is that by the all's preference has becomes heaven, many a left hand through the palm of divine favors become a right hand.
if once he was darkness to the heart, now he has become the heart's window if once he was a foot pad of the faith, now he has become the leader of religion.
if it was the well of calamity that was joseph's prison, ancient of his coming forth it became the firm cord.
every particle like the army of the all is subject to the all's command to the servant of the all it has proved security, to the infidelity has become as an ambush.
silence.
for your speech is as the nile to the opts lifeblood, to the israelite a pure well.
silence.
for your speech is a ripe fig, only not every bird of the air is suitable for figs.
at the dawn hour a moon appeared in the sky, came down from the sky and gazed upon me.
like a hawk which seizes a bird at the time of hunting, that moon snatched me up and ran over the sky.
when i gazed at myself i saw myself no more, because in that moon my body through grace became like the soul.
when i voyaged in soul i saw naught but the moon, so that the secret of the eternal revelation was all disclosed.
the nine spheres of heaven were all absorbed in that moon, the ship of my being was entirely hidden in the sea.
that sea surged, and reason arose again and cast abroad voice thus it happened and so it befell.
that sea foamed, and at every foam fleck something took form and something was bodied forth.
every foam fleck of body which received a sign from that sea melted forthwith and became spirit in that sea.
without the royal fortune of the centipede of one could neither behold the moon nor become the sea.
birds, who are now parted from your cage, show your faces again and declare where you are.
your ship has stopped on this water, wrecked like fishes, lorraine instant rise from this water.
is it that the mold has broken and rejoined that friend?
oscar the trap slipped out of hand, and you are parted from theory?
are you today fuel to that fire of yourselves?
or has the fire in you died, and are you the light of the all?
has that wind become a pestilence and congealed you?
oscar it become the breeze of the zephyr, wherever you enter?
there is an answer from your souls in every word that proceeds, even though you may not open your mouths to answer.
how many pearls you have broken in the mortar of the days.
that is surmise colloquium to the eyes pound on, pound on.
you who have been born when you arrived at death, this is second birth be born, be born.
whether you are born hindu or turk a second time will become clear on the day when you remove the veil, ion and if it be that you have been worthy of the stag of, by allah, you are the high chamberlains of the day of retribution though the whole world be full of thorns, the heart of shelve is wholly a rose bower and through heaven's wheel be idle and ineffective, the world of lovers is fully employed.
let all other men be sorrowful, yet the lover's soul will began and happy and sprightly.
give to the lover every place where a candle is extinguished, for he is endowed with a hundred thousand lights.
even if the lover is alone, he is not alone, for his is companion ed by the hidden beloved.
the wine of lovers bubbles up from the breast love's companion is in the inmost secrets.
love is not content with a hundred promises, for the cunning of the heart enchanters is manifold.
and if you should see a lover sick, is not the fair one at the sick one's head?
be a rider of love, and fear not the way, for love's steed is swift of passion with a single bound it brings you to the abode, even though the road be not even.
the soul of the lover knows nothing of fodder eating, for the souls of lovers are vintners of fine wine.
in the mistress you will discover a heart which sat once intoxicated and very sober.
ra jab has gone out and shaman has entered the soul has quit the body, and the beloved has entered.
the breath of ignorance and the breath of heedlessness have gone forth the breath of love and the breath of forgiveness have entered.
the heart is sprouting roses and eglantine and basil, since from the cloud of generosity rain has arrived.
the mouths of all the sorrowful ones are laughing because of this candy which has entered the teeth.
man is wearing gold brocade like the sun, since that gold scattering moon face one has entered.
clap hands and speak, minstrel of love, for that ringleader of trouble has entered stamping feet.
if yesterday has gone, may today remain forever, and fum has departed, ‘ottoman has entered.
no all the past life is returning, since this eternal prosperity has entered if you are drunk and asleep in the ship of noah, why should you worry if the flood has arrived?
the earth of has become lit up like the sky, since the centipede has entered that maiden equals arena, square.
we have departed may the remainder long remain.
inescapably every man who has been born must depart.
heaven's bowl has never seen any dish that did not in the end fall from the roof.
do not run about so, for in this earth the pupil has become even as the master.
lovely one, put not on airs, for in this grave many a shins become naughty, the same as farad after all, what constancy is there in an edifice whose columns are but fragments of wind?
if we were evil, we carried away evil if we were good, then may you remember.
though you may be the unique one of your time, today you will be departing as one by one.
if you do not wish to remain alone, make children of obedience to the all and good actions.
that thread of unseen light is immortal, because it is the pith of the spirit of the pegs that essence of love, which is the quintessence that remains to all eternity.
if these shifting sands are unstable, another kind of foundation is laid down.
i am like noah's ark in this dry land, cf>r that flood is the sealing of the promised time.
noah made his house an ark, because he saw from the unseen the wave overpowering.
hi we have fallen asleep amongst the silent ones, because weave passed all bounds in clamor and lamentation.
that joseph handsome of cheek has come, that jesus of there has comethat banner of a hundred thousand victories has come fluttering over the cavalcade of spring.
you whose business it is to bring the dead to life, arise, for the day of work has come.
the lion which seizes lions haunting has come into meadowlark raging drunk.
yesterday and the day before have departed seize the cash, for that coin of fair assay has come.
this city today is like paradise it is saying, the prince has come beat the drum, for it is the day of festival be joyous, for the friend has come.
a moon has lifted its head out of the unseen, in comparison with which this moon has become as dust because of the beauty of those souls'repose, the whole world has become redress take heed, spread open the skirt of love, for sprinkling has come from the ninth heaven.
exile bird with cut pinions, in the place of two wings four have come.
heart bound in breast, open, for that lost one has come into your bosom.
foot, come and stamp foot, for that illustrious cup bearer has come speak not of the old man, for he has become young, and speak not of yesteryear, for the friend has come.
you said, what excuse shall i utter to the king?
the king himself has come making excuses.
you said, whither shall i escape out of his hand?
his hand has come bringing all succor you saw a fire, and light has come you saw blood, and red wine has come.
that one who was fleeing from his own fortune, having fled, has come back shamefaced.
be silent, and count not his graces an innumerable grace it is that has come.
we have become drunk and our heart has departed, it hassled from us whither has it gone?
when it saw that the chain of reason was broken, immediately my heart took to flight.
it will not have gone to any other place, it has departed to the seclusion of the all.
seek it not in the house, for it is of the air it is a bird of their, and has gone into the air.
it is the white falcon of the emperor it has taken flight, and departed to the emperor.
we are foes to ourselves, and friends to him who slays uswe are drowned in the sea, and the waves of the sea are slaying us.
for this reason, laughing and, we are yielding up sweet life, because that king is slaying us with honey and sugar and sweet meat we make ourselves out fat for the sacrifice of the feast, because that butcher of lovers slays the very fine and handsome.
that iblis without light begs for a respite from him heave him respite, because he is slaying him after tomorrow.
like ishmael, cheerfully lay your neck before the knife donor steal your throat away from him, if he is slaying, until he slays azazel has no power or way to overcome lovers love itself and passion slays the lovers of love.
the slain ones shout, would that my people knew sec redo the beloved bestows a hundred es, and openly slays.
put forth a head out of the earth of the body, and then see that he is either drawing you to heaven, or slaying you.
the spirit of breath he takes away, the comfort spiritual he bestows he releases the falcon of the soul, and slays the owl of sorrow that idea the christian carries abroad, the mosley has not that idea, that he is slaying this messiah upon the cross.
every true lover is like ahab, they slay themselves show any beside the lover who deliberately slays himself.
death daily makes a hundred requisitions on mankind shelve of the all without requisition slays himself.
i make this enough, else i will myself utter the secret of shelves'death, though the unbeliever slays himself of anger and fury.
i has climbed over the horizon like the sun unceremoniously he is extinguishing the candles of the stars.
behold, those birds which lay golden eggs every morning saddle the swift colt of the skies.
when they gallop, the seventh heaven is their arena when they sleep, they make their pillow the sun and the moon.
they are fishes, in the soul of each one of which is a jonah they are rose bushes which beautify and order well the skies.
hell tasters, heaven givers, on the day of resurrection they're the rulers, they know neither any blessing nor utter any imprecation.
they set the mountains dancing of subtlety in the air, and convert the seas in sweetness to be like sweet sugar.
they make bodies souls, and souls everlasting they make stones into ruby mines, and unbelief into faith.
they are more manifest than all, and more hidden than all if you wish to behold them, they make themselves visible before your eyes.
if you wish to behold clearly, make surmise colloquium of the dust of their feet for they cause him who was blind from his mother's womb to see the way.
if you are a thorn, be sharp of point as a thorn in the quest, that they may convert your whole thorn into the likeness of roses and eglantine.
if there were scope for speech, i would utter things that maybe spoken, so that the spirits and the angels would applaud out of heaven.
last night our elephant remembered india again, in frenzy he was rending the veil of night till dawn.
last night the flagons of the skis were all over brimmingmay our life be like last night till the day of resurrection.
the wines were bubbling and the reasons were senseless ancient of him may part and whole, thorn and rose be happy because of his lovely face.
the coupon clamor of the drunkards mounted to heaven in our hands was the wine, and in our heads the wind.
thousands of uproars fell upon the skies because of these, there hundreds of thousands of squads were fallen prostate.
the day of triumph and good fortune was contained in our night of the brethren of purity night suddenly gave birth touch a day.
the sea broke into waves heaven received a token of this night, and in pride set that token on its head and face.
whatever ways humanity had closed in darkness, the light of divinity in compassion was opening up.
how should the sensible forms on account of that passion remain in place?
how should he remain in place who attains this desire?
begin life anew, mosley.
for the beloved has converted nonentity into being, and dispensed justice to the lovers.
our beloved henceforward holds the fallen to be pardonable, because wherever he is the saki no one remains on the right course.
the surging of the sea of grace, mosley, has wrecked the pomp of personal effort and the programmer of belief.
that grace is king sarah aldrin, for he is a joseph whom the power of egypt himself must purchase at a great price.
i have come to lay my face in the dust of the beloved's feet, i have come to beg pardon for a moment for my actions.
i have come to take up anew the service of his rose bower, i have come to bring fire and set my thorns alight.
i have come to get purification from the dust of all that has passed, to reckon my good deeds as evil as performed in the cause of my beloved i have come with eyes weeping, that my eyes may behold paradise fountains consisting of the love of that blandishes of mine rise, disencumbered passion, take up love anew i have died and become void of my old faith and unbelief for without your straining cloth it is impossible to become unsullied in existence, without you it is impossible ever to escape from one's sorrows and griefs.
outwardly i have fallen silent but you know that inwardly i have bloodstained speech in my blood consuming heart.
in this state of silence examine well my face, that you may see on my cheeks a myriad traces of yourself.
i have shortened this ode the rest of it is in my heart i will utter it, if you intoxicate me with your vintner eye.
silent from speaking, you sundered from your mate, how did you become thus distraught from your clever reason?
silent one, how are you faring with these fiery thoughts?
thoughts are arriving with their huge panoplies army.
when people are alone, they are silent one speaks with men, no one speaks the secret of his heart to door and wall.
perchance you find no men to talk with, that you have fallen silent?
perchance you see no man to be intimate with your words?
are you happy of the pure world?
do not you mix with material things, with dogs of natural being who are defiled with their own carrion?
the dead would rend his shroud and rise from the tomb, if that dead man had tidings of my idol.
what will dead and ing do when he discovers something of him?
for if the mountain beheld him, it would leap and advance i will not flee from blame, for the blame comes from you from your bitterness all the taste of sugar comes to the soul.
devour whatever has come to you, leave it not to store up, for you are on the banks of a running stream when you have drunk, more will come.
behold his fair handiwork, listen to his inspiration to the hearts become entirely light of vision all rapture comes from vision do not despair, saying, my life is gone, and the friend hasn't come he comes betimes and out of season, he comes not only at dawn.
be watchful and wakeful in season and out of season, for suddenly our king enters the eyes like ‘anzus antimony.
when he enters this eye, this eye becomes like the sea when he gazes on the sea, out of all its waters pearls come not such a dead pearl that knows not its own essence, pearl swill come all speaking, all seeking, altogether ae.
what do you know, what do you know what kind of mind and soul you are?
it is the all who knows and sees the virtue that belongs to men.
become accustomed to speak without lips, like a balance, trollops and teeth do not remain when one passes from the world.
say, do not despair because the beloved drives you away if he drives you away today, will he not call you back tomorrow?
if he shuts the door on you, do not go away be patient there, for after patience he will seat you in the place of honor and if he bars against you all ways and passages, he will show you a secret way, which no man knows.
is it not the case that when the butcher cuts off the head of sheep with his knife, he does not abandon what he has slain, but first slays, and then draws?
when no more breath remains to the sheep, he fills it with his own breath you will see whither the all's breath will bring you.
i spoke this as a parable else, his generosity slays no man, rather it rescues him from slaying.
he gives all the kingdom of solomon to a single ant he bestows both worlds, and does not startle a single heart.
my heart has traveled round the world and found none like him whom does he resemble?
whom does he resemble?
ah, silence.
for without speech he gives to all of this wine to taste, he gives to taste, he gives to taste, he gives to taste.
lovers, labor so that, when body and soul remain no more, your hearts may fly to heaven, not remain heavy like the body wash your hearts and souls in the water of wisdom clean of dust, that the two eyes of regret may not remain turned towards the earth.
is it not the case with everything in the world, that love sits vital soul?
apart from love, everything you see remains not eternally your nonexistence (before birth) is as the east, your death visas the west, oriented to another heaven that resembles not this visible heaven.
the way to heaven is within shake the wings of love when love's wings have become strong, there is no need to trouble about a ladder.
consider not the world that exists without, for the true world is within the eye when you have shut your eyes on the world, the world will not remain.
your heart is like a roof, and your senses are waterspouts drink water from the roof, for the waterspout remains not forever.
recite entirely this ode from the tablet of the heart regard not the tongue, for lips and tongue do not remain.
man's body is a bow, breath and speech are as its arrows once the arrows and quiver have gone, no more work remains for the bow.
all slept, and yet sleep did not transport me, heart forlorn as i am all night my eyes counted the stars in the sky.
sleep had so departed from my eyes as if never to return my sleep had quaffed the poison of separation from you, and expired how would it be if you concocted a remedy out of encounter for one wounded, who has committed his heart and eyes to your hands?
no, it is not right to close the door of beneficence once and for all if you will not give pure wine, less than one mouthful of dregs will you not give?
the all has placed all manners of delight in a single chamber no man without you ever found the right way into that chamber if i have become dust in the path of love, regard me not as insignificant how should he who beats on the door of union with you be insignificant?
fill my sleeve with unseen pearls a sleeve which has wiped many a tear from these eyes.
whenever the policeman of love has constrained anyone on dark night, your moon has compassionately pressed him in its silvery bosom.
if the wandering heart returns of your grace, it is the story of the night, the disk of the moon, the camel, and the kurd.
were not these inanimate originally of water?
the world is scold place it came and congealed one by one.
our blood in our body is the water of life, and sweet when incomes forth from its place, see how it is all the same.
do not congeal the water of speech, and bring it not from that fountain, so that it is silk on that side and striped cloth on this.
have you heard that sugar has become cheap in the town?
have you heard that winter has vanished and summer is here?
have you heard that basil and carnation in the garden are laughing surreptitiously because affairs have become easy?
have you heard that the nightingale has returned from his travels, joined in the concert and become the master of all the birds?
have you heard that now in the garden the branches of the trees have heard glad news of the rose, and shake their hands?
have you heard that the soul has become drunk from the cup of spring, and gone off and dancing into the sultan's sanctuary?
have you heard that the anemone's cheeks are suffused with blood?
have you heard that the rose has become head chamberlain of the twin?
have you heard about the peevishness of mad december, how the just officer of spring has come, and he has disappeared?
these idols have obtained trespasser from the twin, so that the earth has become green and arrayed in full splendor if the beauties of the garden last year wrought wonders, each one this year has emerged in beauty a hundredfold as greatcoat rose cheesed ones have come forth whirling out of nonexistence, such that the stars in heaven are but scatter before their feet.
the deposed narcissus has become the inspector of the kingdom the infant bud like jesus has become understanding and chanting the feast of these creatures of joy has once more taken on ornament once more the breeze of the zephyr bestows wine on the garden.
there were images hidden behind the veil of the heart the orchards have become mirrors to the secret of their hearts.
whatever you behold, seek from the heart, do not seek from the mirror the mirror may receive an image, but it cannot become ae.
all the dead ones of the garden have come to life at the summons of the all their unbelief by the all's mercy has all been turned to faith.
they are continuing in their shrouds, and are all stirring, for that which is ae cannot become pledgedforever to prison he said, make this enough, fori will expound this better than this.
i shut my mouth, for he had come and become surety the king's lips will likewise describe all completely, if the summary has departed from you into the bosom of concealment.
this fledgling pigeon essayed the air and flew off when reheard a whizzed and a call from the unseen.
when that desire of all the world sent a messenger saying, come to me, how should not the disciple's soul take flight?
how should it not fly upwards on discovering such pinions, how should it not rend the body's robe on the arrival of such missive?
what a moon it is that draws all these souls.
what a way is that secret way by which it drew.
divine compassion sent a letter saying, come back hither, for in this narrow cage your soul has fluttered much.
but in the house without doors you are like a bird without wings so the fowl of the air does when it has fallen low.
restlessness opens to it the door of compassion at last beat your wings against door and roof this is the key.
until you call on me, you do not know the way of returning for by our calling the way becomes manifest to the reason whatever mounts up, if it be old it becomes new whatever new descends here, through time it becomes threadbare.
strut proudly into the unseen, do not look back, in the all's protection, for there all is profit and increase.
ha, silent one, depart to the sakhi of being, who gave you his pure wine in this sullied cup.
dolor, is this sweet scent coming from the meadow of those, or is it a breeze wafting from beyond the world?
power, from what homeland does this water of life bubble up?
power, from what place comes this light of the attributes?
amazing.
does this clamor arise from the troop of the angels?
amazing.
does this laughter come from the hawk man of paradise?
what concert is it, that the soul spins round dancing?
whatshisname is it, that the heart is coming flapping wings?
what a marriage feast it is.
what a wedding.
heaven is like curtain the moon with this plate of gold for a sign is coming.
what a hunt.
for the arrow of fate is flying if it is not so, why comes the sound of the bow?
good news, good news, lovers all.
clap your hands, for he who once escaped from your hands is coming clapping.
from the fortress of the skies the cry of safe quarter is arising, and from the sea such a wave of fear is coming.
the eye of prosperity is intoxicated with your approaching this is a proof that is obvious to the eye.
escape from this world of dearth, where lances strike for these of two or three loaves.
what is fairer than life?
yet if life should go, have no fear why do you grieve about its departing, seeing that better than it is coming?
every man is amazed at something my amazement is, how is that when he enters the midst, he is not contained in the midst let me have done.
though it is a cipher, i will not explain it what are you trying to explain?
the soul of explanation incoming i amazing keeper of the hot baths.
when he comes forth from seclusion, every painted figure of the baths falls into prostration.
the figures, frozen, unconscious, dead from the reflection of his eyes their eyes open large as narcissi.
through his ears their ears become familiar with fables, through his eyes their eyes become receptive of vistas.
you behold every single bath figure drunk and dancing, likes boon companion who from time to time plunges in red wine.
the courtyard of the baths is full of their clamor and shouting the riotous clamor marks the first day of resurrection.
the figures call one another unto themselves one figure from that corner there comes laughing to another figure.
but no form discovers the bath keeper himself, forall that form is running hither and thither in search of him.
all are distracted, he behind and before them, unrecognized, the king of the souls comes at the head of the army.
the rosebud of every mind is filled with roses from his cheeks the skirt of every beggar is filled with gold from mishandle hold your basket before him, that he may fill it of himself, so that the basket of your poverty may become the despair sarnoff judge and plaintiff alike flee from less and more, when that moon for one moment enters drunk into the assembly.
the wine becomes the tavern, the dead become riotous drunk, the wood becomes the moaning pillar when he enters the pulpit.
he denies them his presence, and their forms freeze, their eyes vanish, their ears become deaf.
when he appears again their eyes open, the garden becomes full of birds, the orchard is verdant.
go to the rosebud and the garden, behold the friends and the chatter in the wake of this expression the soul comes to that pass.
how can one tell what was manifested, friend?
how can then indicate that, forall that it enters the ink holder?
little by little the drunkards congregate, little by little the wine worshipers arrive.
the headteachers coquettishly come along the way, the cross checked ones are arriving from the garden.
little by little from the world of being and not being nothingness have departed and the beings are arriving.
all with skirts full of gold as a mine are arriving for the sake of the destitute.
the lean and sick from the pasturage of love are arriving fat and hale.
the souls of the pure ones like the rays of the sun are arriving from such a height to the lowly ones.
blessed is that garden, where, forthe sake of the mary's, new fruits are arriving even in winter.
their origin is grace, and their return is grace even from the garden to the garden they are coming.
laughter tells of your loving kindness, tears complain of your wrath these two mutually contrary messages relate in this world about a single beloved.
lovingkindness beguiles a heedless man in such a way that is not anxious about wrath, and commits si the other man wrath endows with hopelessness, so that he keeps complete despair.
love, like a pitying intercessor, comes to the protection of both these lost souls.
we give thanksforthis love, the all, which performs infinite loving kindness whatever shortcomings in our gratitude we may be guilty of, love suffices to make amends for it.
is this love coauthor, or the water of life?
it makes life without bound and term between the sinner and the all, like the messenger, it runs much to and from and busies itself greatly.
make an end of verse on verse do not recite this love itself will interpret the verse.
the lovers visible and the beloved invisible who ever saw such a love in all the world?
not one lip having attained the form of the beloved, hundreds of thousands of souls have expired.
two bow shots'distance shot an arrow from the heights, so that it tore through the shields of the skies.
not having drawn the skirt of the beloved of the unseen, the hearts of thousands have suffered tribulation and beating not having bitten the lip of him whose lip is sweet, how many have bitten the back of the hand in banishment.
not having grazed on the sugarcane of his lip, the heart has grazed on his thousands of blandishments.
not one rose having blossomed from his rose garden, hundreds of thousands of thorns have pricked in the breast.
though the soul has experienced nothing but cruelty from him, it has fled away from mortal infidelities in hope of himit has preferred that pain over generosities, and has chosen that cruelty above all fidelities.
his thorn has triumphed over all roses, his lock is more delightful than a hundred keys.
his tyranny has carried off the ball from the turn of good fortune candies have blossomed from the poison of his wrath.
his rejection is better than the reception of others ruby and pearl are desirous of his stone.
these worldly happiness are nothing seek that happiness which bunk sand possesses.
these augmentations of this world are less seek that augmentation which ba dazzled possesses.
that augmentation is your six fingered hand its value is less, though apparent it is augmenting.
seek that radiance which sameness expounded, that unique one whose uniqueness ‘attar revealed.
fat and sweet food appear pure and good one night they passed with you, and became filth.
eat the fat and sweet of the food of love, that your wings may sprout and you may know how to fly.
after all, abraham as a child in the cave sucked from the fingertips of a lion.
dismiss that that fetus in the womb sucked the water of life from blood.
the tall stature which heaven made upright in the end became bowed like the crooked heaven the tall stature which love raised up, its stature transcended the glorious throne.
nay, be silent he who knows all secrets is present he said, we are nearer than the jugular vein.
our death is an eternal wedding feast what is the secret of this?
he is the all, one.
the sun became dispersed through the windows the windows became shut, and the numbers departed.
those numbers which existed in the grapes are naughty in the juice which flows from the grapes.
whosoever is ing by the light of the all, the death of this spirit is replenishment to him.
speak not evil, speak not good regarding those who have passed away from good and evil.
fix your eye on the all, and speak not of what you have not seen, that he may implant another eye in your eye.
that eye is the eye of the eye, nothing unseen or secret escapes from it.
when its gaze is by the light of the all, to such a light what can be hidden?
though all lights are the light of the all, call not all of those the eternal lightweight eternal light is that which is the light of the all, transient lights the attribute of flesh and body.
the light in this mortal eye is a fire, save for that eye which the all anoints with surmise colloquium.
his fire became light for the sake of abraham the eye of reason became in quality like the eye of an ass.
the all, the bird of the eye which has seen your bounty flies in your air.
the pole, he who is the sky of the skies, is on the lookout in search of you either grant him vision to see you, or do not dismiss him ancient of this fault.
make tearful the eye of your soul every moment, guard it against the snare of human stature and cheek.
eye asleep and yourself wakeful such a sleep is perfection and rectitude but the eye asleep that finds no interpretation (of dreams) expel it from sleep, despite envy.
else it will labor and be boiling in the fire of love of throne, even to the grave.
io everywhere the scent of the all is coming see how the people are coming uncontrollably from him for whom all souls are athirst, to the thirsty the cry of the water carrier is coming.
they are milk drinkers of divine generosity, and are on the watch to see from whence the mother is coming.
they are in separation, and all are waiting to see whence union and encounter are coming.
from muslims, jews, and christians alike every dawn the sound of prayer is coming blessed is that intelligence into whose heart's ear from heaven the sound of come hither is coming.
keep your ear clean of scum, for a voice is coming from heaven the defiled ear hears not that sound only the deserving gets his deserts.
defile not your eye with human cheek and mole, for the emperor of eternal life is coming and if it has become defiled, wash it with tears, for the cure comes from those tears.
a caravan of sugar has arrived from egypt the sound of footfall and bells is coming.
fla, be silent, for to complete the ode our speaking king incoming again the sun of felicity has mounted to heaven, again the desire of the souls has arrived from the way of the soul.
again by the good pleasure of rid wan the gates of paradise have been opened, every spirit is plunged up to its neck in the pool of coauthor.
again that king, who is the altar to whom kings turn, has entered, again that moon surpassing the moon has entered.
these distraught by mad passion have all mounted their steeds, for that king, the unique cavalier, has entered the heart of the army.
the particles of dark earth are all bewildered and amazed, having heard from gracelessness the cry, arise, the resurrection has come.
the inexpressible proclamation has come, not from within and not from without, not left, not right, not behind, not from before.
you say, what direction is that?
that direction where there is questing.
you say, whither shall i turn my face?
thither this head has come hither hence this ripeness came upon the fruits, thither whence the attributes of gems came upon the stones thither where the dry fish came to life before hider, thither whence moses'hand became as a radiant moon.
this burning in our hearts has become bright as a candle, this decree has come upon our heads like a crown of pride.
the soul has not leave to utter this exposition, else every infidel would have escaped from unbelief.
the unbeliever in hardship turns his lace thither when he experiences pain on this side, he believes in that side.
continue in pain, that pain may show you the road thither that place who sees?
the man who is constrained by pain.
that most mighty emperor has closed the door fast today he has put on human apparel and entered by the door.
the sea can always dispense with the fish, for in comparison with the sea the fish is contemptible.
you will not find fish, my soul, like the sea of the ocean in the sea of the all's ocean there are many fish.
the sea is like a nurse, the fish like a sucking child the wretched infant is always weeping for milk.
yetforall this indifference, if the sea should compassionately incline towards a fish, great will be the grace and that fish which knows that the sea is seeking him his foot in pride rises above the ether.
that fish which the sea does no task without the fish's opinion is its counselor you might say that so highly favored a fish is an emperor, and that infinite sea is his minister.
if anyone should dare to call him a fish, every drop in his wrath would be as an arrow.
how long will you speak in riddles?
your riddles bring bewilderment expound a little more clearly, that the heart may perceive worshipful bossdin is both power and master, for by him the earth of is all musk and ambergris.
should the thorns of the world behold his graces, in softness and delicacy they would become like silk.
may i never have a soul, if my soul after tasting his wine and being drunk with his beauty is self aware there was no grace left which that fair idol did not perform what fault is it of ours, if he acted not generously towards you?
you are upbraiding because that beauty was cruel whoever saw a lovely one in both worlds who acted not cruelly?
his love is sugar enough, even if he gave not sugar his beauty is all fidelity, even if he was not faithful.
show me a house that is not filled with lamps of him showmen a portico which his cheek has not filled with brightness.
this eye and that lamp are two lights, each one on its own when the two met, none made parting between them.
hi when the spirit became lost in contemplation, it said this one has contemplated the beauty of the all but the all.
each one of these similitude is at once an exposition and an error only out of jealousy the all named his face, by the forenoon.
the sun of the face of the centipede, pride of, never shone on aught transient but it made it eternalness fire the day before yesterday whispered secrecy to the smoke, the aloes wood cannot rest without me, and with mat is happy.
it knows well my worth, and expresses thanks to me, for heartwood has perceived that in its passing away there is profit.
the aloes wood was knotted and tied from head to foot in the release of nonexistence these knots were resolved.
hail and welcome to you, my flame eating friend, my passer away and martyr and pride of all witnesses.
see how heaven and earth are pawns of existence flee into nonexistence from the blindness of the one and the blueness of the other.
every soul which flees away from poverty and nonexistence is misfortune fleeing away from prosperity and good fortune.
without expunging, no one profits from the tablet of nonexistence make peace between me and expunging, loving one.
until yonder dark earth passed away from itself, it did not begin to augment or escape from inertia.
so long as sperm was sperm and did not become obliterated from seminal fluid, it attained not the cypress'stature nor the cheeks'beauty.
when bread and broth ferment in the intestines, they then become reason and soul, the despair of the envious.
so long as black rock did not pass away from itself, it did not become gold and silver, neither found its way into coins.
first comes lowliness and bondage, then afterwards there is kingship in the ritual prayer men first stand, and then sit.
for a lifetime you have made trial of your own being once it is also necessary to experience not being the pomp and pride of poverty and passing away is nonempty boast whenever smoke appears, it is not without a fire.
if our minds and desires belong not to love, how did love wantonly rob us of heart and turban?
love entered, and draws us along by the ear every morning to the school of those who fulfill their covenants.
love sets flowing the water of penitence from the eye of the believer, to wash his breast clean of anger and stubborn denial you are fallen asleep and the water of hider splashes beside you leap up from slumber and seize the goblet of immortality.
let love tell you the rest of it secretly from me be one with the companions of the cave, alike sleeping and watchmaking sweetheart appeared asleep.
i called from the garden, quick, i have stolen a peach.
the sweetheart in fact was not asleep we laughed and said, the fox then with cunning how didst so easily steal the quarry from the lion's hands?
who milks a cloud?
who succeeds in reaching there, unless perchance the cloud of itself shows generosity?
how can the nonexistent contrive to bring into existence?
its the all's bounty that bestows existence on the nonexistent.
sit as if nonexistent for in ritual prayer one only gives the greeting when seated.
it is through humility that water avails against fire, for fire stands up whereas water is prostate.
when the lip is silent, the heart has a hundred tongues be silent how long, how long do you desire to make trial of him?
dawn has arrived and drawn his polished blade, and from heaven camphor white morn has broken forth.
the sufi of the skies has rent his blue robe and shawl deliberately even to the navel.
after being routed, the master of day having found the strength has dragged the zing of night from the royal throne.
from that direction whence the turk of joy and the handoff grief arrived there is everlasting going and coming, and the way is not to be seen.
power, whither has the army of the abyssinian king fled?
whence so suddenly has the army of the caesar of rum arrived?
who can catch the scent of this invisible road wrapped in enigma?
he who has drunk or tasted of the wine of love preternatural night is bewildered at who has blackened its face day is bewildered at who has created it so fair.
earth is bewildered at how one half of it became grass, and the other half grazing, and grazed upon that continually half of it became eater and half for eating, half eager for purity and the other half impure.
ion night has died and come to life again it is life after death.
sorrow, slay me, for i am hussein and you are dazzled the pearl held auction, saying, who will buy this?
none had the price, so the pearl bought itself from itself.
saki, today we have all become your guests every night through you has become a night of power, every day a day of festival give from your bowl the wine of they shall be given to drink of pure wine, for only new joy will cut away anxiety.
the heart thirsty reprobates, when they drink wine to excess, when they lose themselves, then they find that key.
you have taken up your station beside the vat of unity along with noah and lot and karachi and shill and ba eased.
be silent for the spirit in joy is flapping its wings, so that draughtboard has coursed into the head and veins of the spirit.
unbelief has put on black garments the light of muhammad has arrived.
the drum of immortality has been beaten the eternal kingdom has arrived.
the face of earth is turned green heaven has rent her robe once again the moon is split the incorporeal spirit has arrived.
the world is filled with sugar happiness has bound its waistarise, for once again that moon chested one has arrived.
the heart like an astrolabe has become the token of the seven heavens the commentary on the heart of ahmad has arrived in seven volumes.
one night shackled reason approached the sultan of love, saying, fettered spirit has arrived to your good favor.
the messenger of the lovers'hearts ran head downwards likes pen the good tidings sweet as sugar have arrived in the heart of the page.
how long will the pure spirits endure under the earth?
leap forth from the tomb the all assisted victory has arrived.
the drum of resurrection has been beaten, the trumpet of uprising is sounding the time has come, you dead ones the mustering renewed has arrived.
scattered is what is in the tombs, known is what is in the breasts the voice of the trumpet has sounded the spirit has arrived at its goal.
last night a tumult arose amongst the stars, for the most auspicious star arrived from the propitious ones.
mercury became out of control, he broke the tablet and the pen in his wake venus leaped, drunken arrived at the polestar.
the moon's orb grew pale, she fled towards leo.
i said, trust all is well she said, the unsolved saki has arrived.
reason in the midst of that tumult desired to show itself child is still a child, even if it has arrived at the abc.
arise, for this is our turn, the king of the world is ours since his gaze fell upon our souls, eternal life has arrived.
the saki without hue and bragging has poured out wine unstinting the mountain of oaf danced like a camel joy extended has arrived.
the solomon of the spirit has again cried, welcome to the morning cup.
the pavilion smoothed has arrived to bedazzles despite the envious ones of religion, in defiance of the accursed devil, the salve of heart and eye has arrived in the ophthalmic eye.
for the sake of the uninitiated i have clapped a lock on my mouth minstrel, arise and cry, eternal delight has arrived.
a little fox carried off the sheep's tail was the lion perchance asleep?
the blind and blue fox does not carry off its own life from the lion.
the lion purposely gave way, otherwise who would believe this, that the lame fox stole the sheep's tail from the lion?
he says, a ate joseph son of jacob even the lion of the skies cannot lose its talons on him.
every moment the inspiration of the all is guarding our hearts how should the envious devil snatch our felicity from us?
the all's hand is outstretched do not seek to cheat the all's hand whoever sows a grain in the all's path reaps barley corn barley whoever humiliates you, go, commit him to the all whoever seeks to dismay you, quickly turn your face to the all.
agony and fear and suffering are the all's lasso pain brings you pulling at your ear to the portal of bounty.
power, power.
exclaiming, face to heaven turning, tears from your eyes running over your pale cheeks like a river green sprung from the water over your desolate heart and soul, dawn stripping off the veil that is the day of eternity.
if pharaoh's head headaches with pain and tribulation, how would that rebel have uttered the boast of divinity?
when the moment of drowning arrived he cried, i am the least of slaves unbelief became faith, and he saw, when calamity showed its face.
withhold not suffering from your body plunge it into the current of the nile, so that your pharaoh like body may be purified of stubborn denial.
the carnal soul is prince in egypt, it is a prisoner in the current of the nile be like gabriel over it, bring smoke out of heartwood it is a miserly aloes wood, it will not convey scent to you nor unlock its secret until it endures fire and smoke.
the pride of, bosshad whispered, love's surfaced with you it is not fitting to add more vinegar.
the month of fasting has come, the emperor's banner has arrived withhold your hand from food, the spirit's table has arrived the soul has escaped from separation and bound nature's hands the heart of error is defeated, the army of faith has arrived the army of the snorting chargers has put its hand to plunder, from the fire of the strikers of fire the soul is brought to lamentation the cow was goodly, moses son of ‘iran appeared through him the dead became ing when it was sacrificed.
fasting is as our sacrifice, it is the life of our soul let us sacrifice all our body, since the soul has arrived as guest.
fortitude is as a sweet cloud, wisdom rains from it, because twas in such a month of fortitude that the koran arrived.
when the carnal soul is in need, the spirit goes into ascension when the gate of the prison is broken, the soul reaches the beloved.
the heart has rent the curtain of darkness and winged unto the sky the heart, being of the angels, has again arrived anthem quickly clutch the rope out of this body's well at the top of the well of water cry, joseph of has arrived.
when jesus escaped from the ass his prayers became accepted wash your hands, for the table has arrived from heaven.
wash your hands and your mouth, neither eat nor speakseek that speech and that morsel which has come to the silent ones floyd on the skirt of flip grace, for suddenly fie will flee outdo not draw him as an arrow, for he will flee from the bow.
what images does he play at, what tricks contrive.
if he is present in form, he will flee by the way of spirit.
seek him in the sky, and he shines from the water like then enter the water, and he flees up to heaven.
call him from the place less and he points you to place seek him in place and he flees to the placeless.
is not the bird of your imagination fleet as an arrow in existence?
know that for a certainty the absolute flees from the imaginary i will flee from this and that out of fear (not out of weariness) because my gracious beauty flees from this and that.
fleet of foot as the wind am i for love of the rose, not the rose that for fear of the autumn wind flees from the garden.
when it sees an attempt at speaking, his name flees so that you cannot say, grandson will flee.
he will flee from you so that if you draw his image, the image will fly from the tablet, the expression will flee from lighthearted what king is he who fashions a king out of dust, for the sake of one or two beggars makes himself a beggar.
he acts the mendicant like the poor and wretched with his give the all a loan, that he may give you a kingdom and fashion throne he passes by the dead and bestows life on the dead, helix upon pain and contrives a cure for the pain.
when he congeals the wind he makes of the wind water, when he causes the water to boil he fashions out of it air.
look not meanly on the world, for that the world is perishing, forafterwards he will fashion it into an eternal world.
men marvel at the alchemy which converts copper into gold regard the copper that every instant fashions alchemy.
if there are a thousand locks on your heart, do not fear seethe shop of love which the sweetheart fashions.
he who, without pen and implement, in the idol house fashions for us a thousand beauteous forms, has fashioned for us a thousand silas and magnums what form is it that the all fashions for the sake of the all.
if your heart is of iron, weep not for its hardness, for the polishing of his bounty is making it into a mirror of purity.
when you cut away from your friends and go beneath the dust, he will make of snakes and ants compartmentalization did not moses fashion the serpent into a succor and a support?
does not he every moment fashion fidelity out of very cruelty?
look this instant into the grave of your body, what heart ravishing phantasms he ominously fashions there.
when you cleave open your breast, then you see nothing lest any man should prate idly, saying, where does he fashion them?
the proverb says, eat the grapes and enquirer not of the garden the all fashions out of stone two hundred fountains of contentment look inside the stone, and there is no trace of the water it is from the unseen that he fashions, not out of low and high.
out of the unconditioned came this conditioned, for out of no he fashions a myriad sayers of yes.
behold two rivers of light flowing from two pieces of fat marvel not that he fashions a stave into a serpent.
examine these two ears where is the amber of speech?
marvel at him who makes of a hole amber.
he gives the house a soul and makes it a master when hassles the master, he fashions of him again a house through the form of the master has descended under the dust, he fashions the heart of the master into an abode of majesty to the eye of men who worship form, the master departed, but he is fashioning the master a cloak of a different design.
be silent, speak less with the tongue of praise and paean, that the all may fashion you into paean and praise.
on the day of death, when my beer is on the move, do not suppose that i have any pain at leaving this world.
do not weep for me, say not alas, alas.
you will fall into the devil's snare that would indeed be alas.
when you see my hearse, say not parting, parting.
that time there will be for me union and encounter.
when you commit me to the grave, say not farewell, farewell.
for the grave is a veil over the reunion of paradise.
having seen the going down, look upon the coming up how should setting impair the sun and the moon?
to you it appears as setting, but it is a rising the tomb appears as a prison, but it is release for the soul.
what seed ever went down into the earth which did not grow?
why do you doubt so regarding the human seed?
what bucket ever went down and came not out full?
why this complaining of the well by the joseph of the spirit?
when you have closed your mouth on this side, open it on that, for your shout of triumph will echo in the place less air.
love took away sleep from me and love takes away sleep, for love purchases not the soul and mind for so much as half conformable love is a black lion, thirsty and blood drinking, it pastures only on the blood of lovers it clings to you in affection, and drags you to the snare when you have fallen in, then it looks on from afar.
love is a tyrannous prince, an unscrupulous police officer, it tortures and strangles the innocent.
whoso falls into love's hands weeps like a cloud whoso dwells afar from love freezes like snow.
every instant love shatters a thousand bowls into fragments, every moment stitches and rends a thousand garments.
love causes a thousand eyes to weep, and goes on laughing love slays miserably a thousand souls, and counts them as one.
though the smirch flies happily in mount oaf, when it sees love's share it falls, and flies no more.
no man escapes from love's cords by deceit or madness, no reasoning man escapes from its snare by intelligence.
io my words are disordered because of love, else i would have shown you the ways love travels i would have shown you how love seizes the lion, i would have shown you how love hunts the prey.
henceforward the nightingale in the garden will tell of us, twill tell of the beauty of that heart ravishing beloved.
when the wind falls upon the head of the willow and it begins to dance, the all alone knows what things it says to the air.
the tree understands a little about the meadow's burning, it lifts up two broad hands sweetly and prays.
i ask the rose, from whom did you steal that beauty?
therese laughs softly out of shame, but how should she tell?
though the rose is drunk, it is not dissolute like me, that it should tell you the secret of the intoxicated narcissus.
when you seek secrets, go amongst the drunkards, for the tipsy head shamelessly tells the secret.
inasmuch as wine is the daughter of the vine and the family generosity, it has opened the horse's mouth and speaks of lavishness especially the wine of the heavenly trellis from the all generous almighty happy the all will speak of it's foolishness and generosity that new wine ferments from the breast of the gnostic, out of the depths of his body's vat it invites you to the feast, ion since the breast gives milk, it can also give wine from the breast its flowing fountain tells a pretty tale.
when that spirit becomes more intoxicated, it stakes its cloak, lays down cap, and abandons this gown.
when the reason drinks blooded wine recklessly, it open sits mouth and tells the mysteries of majesty.
be silent, for no one will believe you bad copper swallow snot what the philosopher's stone says.
bear tidings to, pride of the world perchance shamanism din will speak your praise.
love to you makes me obious to my own kindred, for love of you has rooted up the foundations of wellbeing for love desires only ruination of one's affairs, for love accepts counsel from no calamity.
what place is there for wealth and fair repute and respect and pomp?
what is household and safety, what family or children?
when love's sword snatches away the lover's soul, a thousand lay down their sacred es in thanks therefor.
what, the desire of love for you, and then the fear of ruination?
you with purse fastened, and then the love for that sugar lip?
draw back your head and sit in the corner of safety the short hand aspires not to the tall cypress.
go.
in all your life you have not caught the scent of love this is not love, this is reason self satisfied what is it to exercise patience and snatch the skirt out of temptation, seated to see what will come down from heaven for a few days?
love's fire arrived and consumed all that is beside him since all is consumed, sit content and laugh gaily.
especially the love of that one the like of whom, from alsatian now, has never been so devoted to chastity.
if you say, i have seen him, for the all's sake open another eye and close these twainfor by this glance, thousands of thousands like me and you both worlds have been destroyed and blinded for ever.
if to my eye other than that beauty should come, may my two eyes be gouged out with an ace.
the sight of all heroic men has proved powerless how should the slothful attain the beauty and majesty of the king?
would that the all had rent the veil of being, even as ‘all the lion rent the gates of chair, that the eye might have seen how for a thousand years, five times a day, the drums are beatenforhim on the other side.
loveforyou took away my rosary and gave verses and songs cried no strength (save with the all) and repented oft, but my heart did not heed.
at love's hand i became a singer of odes, hand clapping love for you consumed reputation and shame and all that i possessed.
once i was chaste and self denying and firm footed as mountain what mountain is there that your wind did not carry away like chaff?
if i am a mountain, yet i hold the echo of your voice and if ian chaff, in your fire i am reduced to smoke.
when i saw your being, i became nonexistent out of shame out of the love of this nonexistence the world of soul came into being wherever nonexistence comes, existence diminishes brave nonexistence, from which, when it came, existence augmented.
heaven is blue, earth like a blind squatter on the road he who beholds your moon escapes from blind and blue.
the likeness of the soul of a great saint hidden in the body of the world is the likeness of ahmad the messenger midst thesauruses and jews.
to praise you in reality is to praise oneself, for he who praises the sun thereby praises his own eyes, ion your praise is as the sea, our tongue is a ship the soul voyages on the sea, and its end is praiseworthy.
the tender care of the sea is for me like wakeful fortune why should i grieve, if my eye is stained with sleep?
at the night prayer, when the sun declines to sinking, this way of the senses is closed and the way to the unseen is opened.
the angel of sleep then drives forward the spirits, even as the shepherd who watches over his flock.
to the place less, towards the spiritual meadows, what cities and what gardens he there displays to them.
the spirit beholds a thousand marvelous forms and shapes, when sleep excises from it the image of the world.
you might say that the spirit was always a dweller there, it remembers not this world, and its weariness does not increase.
its heart so escapes from the load and burden for which it trembled here, that no care for it gnaws at it any more.
a little apple, half red and half yellow, made tale of rose and saffron when the lover became parted from the beloved, the beloved carried off the airs of pride, the lover the pains.
these two contrary hues through a single separation have displayed love on the cheeks of both.
it is not appropriate for the beloved's cheeks to be yellow for the lover to be red and fat is unseemly.
since the beloved has begun to show airs, endure his airs, lover, and do not battle against them.
i am like a thorn and my master is as the rose they are twain, in reality they are one.
he is as the sun, and i am the shadow his is the heat of continuance, mine the cold.
goliath went out against goliath david measured well the links the heart was mom of the body but is the king of the body, even as man is mom of woman.
again within the heart there is a heart hidden, like a horseman hidden in dust the stirring of the dust is caused by the horseman it is he who caused this dust to dance.
no chess is it, foryou to apply your thoughts with trust in the all fling away your counter like dice.
is the sun of the heart that heat nurtured the fruits of the heart.
my verse resembles the bread of egypt night passes over it, and you cannot eat it any more.
devour it the moment it is fresh, before the dust settles upon it.
its place is the warm climate of the heart in this world it dies of cold.
like a fish it quivered for an instant on dry land, another moment and you see it is cold.
even if you eat it imagining it is fresh, it is necessary to censure up many images.
what you drink is really your own imagination it is no old tale, my good man.
take heed, for the time of men of fortitude has come, the hour of hardship and testing has come.
in such a time covenants are broken, when the knife reaches to the bone.
covenants and oaths become very weak when the affairs of man threaten his life.
ha, my heart, do not make yourself weak make your heart strong, for the time for that has come.
laugh like red gold in the fire, that men may say, the gold of the mine has come.
eager and cheerful before the sword of doom, cry aloud, the champion has come.
be with the all and pray to him for help, for replenishment has come from heaven.
the all, shake the sleeve of bounty, since your servant has come to the threshold.
like an oyster shell we have our mouths open, for the cloud of your pearl scattering grace has comedic many a dry thorn there is out of whose heart a case hardened emerged in your protection.
have pointed to you, because from you sinless joys have come it is the time of compassion and sympathy, for a very heavy blow has come upon me.
abigail.
take heed, for the army of the elephant without bounds has come against the kaaba.
reason says to me, be silent.
enough for the all who knows the unseen has come.
i held my peace, the all but without my will lamentation mounted up from my soul.
thou thrust not when thou thrust is also of the all the arrow which suddenly came from this bow.
someone said, master sana'.
is dead.
the death of such master is no small thing.
he was not chaff which flew on the wind, he was not water which froze in the cold he was not a comb that split on a hair, he was not a seed crushed by the earth.
he was a treasure of gold in this dust bowl, forhe reckoned both worlds at one barleycorn.
the earthly mold he flung to the earth, the soul of reason he carried to the heavens.
the second soul of which men know nothing we talk ambiguously he committed to the beloved.
the pure wine mingled with the wine dregs, rose to the top of the vat and separated from the dregs.
they meet together on the journey, dear friend, native margarito, of ray, of rum, kurdeach one returns to his own home how should silk be compared with striped cloth?
be silent, like (a letter's) points, inasmuch as the king has erased your name from the volume of speech.
ah, what was there in that light giving candle that it set fire to the heart, and snatched the heart away?
you who have set fire to my heart, i am consumed, friendcome quickly, quickly.
the form of the heart is not a created form, for the beauty of the all manifested itself from the cheek of the heart.
i have no succor save in his sugar, i have no profit save in his lip.
remember him who one dawn released this heart of mine from the chain of your trees.
my soul, the first time i saw you my soul heard something from your soul.
when my heart drank water from your fountain it drowned in you, and the torrent snatched me away.
plus a surfaced one has come perchance is he the bitter winger cold?
pour a wine cup over his head, saki, sweet as sugar.
either give him wine from the bottle, or send him on hi sway now, for it is not pleasant, boy, foran forefeet to be electroencephalogram beauties.
bestow the prophetic wine, so that the ass may not continue in waspishness from jesus'wine two wings forthwith sprout on the ass.
if a sober heart enters the assembly of the drunkards, do notelet him you know that, in the state of drunkenness, good and evil befall the drunkard.
watchman, sit by the door, give not admittance to our assembly save to the heart aflame lover from whom comes theodore of a burning heart.
if you want a hand, he gives a foot if you want a foot, he lays down his head if you want to borrow a hoe, instead of the hoe he brings an axe.
since i became immersed in wine i have become without shame and heart the shield is no protection to me, i am myself as a shield before the sword.
i desire a chanter, a ing water of life, to set fire to sleep and to utter this melody till dawn.
if you find one sober vein in me, pluck it out if a manias not been a lion catcher of the all, reckon him a dog in idiopathic some folk dissolute and drunk and, some folk slaves to the five and the six these are apart and those are apart, these are other and those are other.
i have consumed beyond measure, for i have lost the treasure bind my hand, bind my mouth this is how to preserve the drunkard.
take heed, convert our sting to honey, give ear to our lament make us senseless like yourself, senseless look upon us.
yesterday at dawn passing by the beloved said to me, you're distraught and unaware how long will this go on?
my cheek is the envy of the rose and have you filled your eye with heart's blood in quest of the thorn?
i said, before your stature the cypress is but a sapling.
said, before your cheek the heavens'candle is dark.
i said, sky and earth are autopsy on account of you it ions wonder therefore, if i have no access to you.
he said, i am your soul and heart why are you distracted?
say no word, and remain weeping against my silvery bosomi said, you who have robbed my heart and soul of repose, have not the power to be still.
he said at once, you are a drop of my sea why do you utter still?
become drowned, and fill the soul of the oyster shell with pearls.
again in sleep that root of wakefulness gave me the opium of wild commotion and set me reeling.
with a hundred devices i try to be heedless, i make myself to ignore him that perfect moon comes, holding in his hand such bowl.
he says to me, will you not say how long with those beggarly looks, like every naked unfortunate, you will go on begging at every door?
with this complaining and revealing you are the slave of dervish habit and ewer if you are true and a man of verity, why are you in this sack?
kings are put to shame by these things which are born of you you were an angel why must you be the plaything of the devil?
who knows to speak what he speaks?
for the world is not his mate the universe is blind, and being deaf, to what he disclose sand conceals.
if i had the tongue to reveal the beloved's secret, every soul which heart would burst out of this pass.
on account of that sea bountiful beloved my state is very difficult, lot my breast is laid waste by that leaping and charging to and fro.
if i tell the believers they will all instantly become infidels, and if i tell the infidels no infidel will remain in the world.
when last night his phantom came in sleep, graciously it inquired of me, how are you?
i said, without you, in dire straits if i had a hundred souls, they would all become blood she din grieving for you, beloved your heart is stone, granite, or mountain of marble.
i grant that your prince has gold by the ton but how happens it that the gold rich man obtains a cheek like gold?
when they heard complaining from the wretched, frenzied lover, rose and rose bower came out from the earth to behold the spectacle.
quick, strip off your clothes at once jump into this pool, that you may escape from your head and the pressure of your turban we too like you used to disapprove of this tumult through single wink we became thus beguiled by the beloved.
how long will you break your lover out of jealous rage?
lethe, that this sick heart may utter two or three laments.
no, no, let it not be, forby reason of its wretched lamentation neither earth's people remains, nor the wheeling sky.
today it were no wonder if that veiled world were not disclosed by leave of the eviler again this mad heart has broken loose from its chain, torn its collar once more out of passionate love.
silence.
for the indication from the king of love is thus in fortitude seize and compress the throat of your heart and soul.
in this cold and rain the beloved is sweeter, the beauty in the bosom, and love in the brain.
the beauty in the bosom, and what a beauty.
graceful and fair and supple and fresh and shining new in this cold let us flee to his quarter, for none his like was ever born of mother.
in this snow let us kiss his lips, for snow and sugar refresh the heart i have no more strength, i am gone out of hand, they have carried me away and brought me again.
when his phantasm suddenly enters the heart, the heart departs out of its place the all is most great.
there is a light in the midst of the red hair, transcending eye and imagination and spirit.
do you desire to stitch yourself to it?
arise, and rend the veil of the carnal soul.
that subtle spirit became a form with eyebrows and eyes and brown skin.
the all the inscrutable disclosed himself to the form of the chosen prophet.
that form of his passed away in the form, and that eye of his, like the day of resurrection.
every time he looked upon men, a hundred doors we reopened by the all.
when the form of the chosen one passed away, the all is most great seized the world.
i have a bad habit i am weary pray excuse me.
how shall my habit become seemly without your fair face, my beauty?
without you i am like winter, people are tormented because of me with you i am as a rose bower, my habit is the habit offspring without you i lack reason, i am weary, everything i say is crooked, i am ashamed of reason and reason is shame fast at the light of your face.
what is the remedy for bad water?
to return to the river.
what is the remedy for bad habits?
to see the beloved's lace again i see the water of the soul imprisoned in this whirlpool of the body i dig out the earth to make a way to the sea.
you have a potion which you give the despairing, secretly, lest the hopeful, grieving for it, should utter lamentation.
heart, so much as you are able do not withhold your eye from the beloved, whether he withdraws from you or draws you into his bosom.
each moment i catch from my bosom the scent of the beloved how should i not take myself every night into my bosom?
last night i was in love's garden that desire ran into my head his sun peeped out of my eye, so that the river began to flow every laughing rose that springs from the bank of that river of love had escaped from the thorn of being and delude'ear every tree and grass was dancing in the meadow, but in the eye of the vulgar was bound and at rest.
suddenly from one side our cypress appeared, so that the garden was beside itself and the tree clapped its hands.
face like fire, wine like fire, love afire all three delightful soul because of the intermingled fires lamenting, whither shall i flee?
in the world of divine unity there is no room for number, but number exists of necessity in the world of five and four.
you may count a myriad sweet apples in your hand if you want to make one, squeeze them all together.
a myriad grapes went forth from the veil of skin when skinny more remained, there remained the wine of the prince.
without counting the letters, behold what is this speech of the heart technicolor is it not a form derived from the root of the affair?
bossi is seated like a king, and before him my verses are ranged like willing slaves.
reason is the chain of travelers and lovers, my son break the chain, and the way is plain and clear ahead, my son.
reason is a chain, heart a cheat, body a delusion, soul a veil the way is hidden from all these heaviness, my son.
when you have risen out of reason, soul, and heart, and you have gone forth, still this certainty and this direct vision is in doubt, my son.
the man who has not departed out of self is not a man, meson the love which is not of the soul is but a legend, my son.
set up your breast as a target before the arrow of his decree be sharp, for the arrow of his decree is already in the bow, my son.
the breast that has been wounded by the striking of the arrow of his tug, on its brow and face are a hundred marks, my son.
if you mount like iris to the seventh heaven, the love of the beloved is an excellent ladder indeed, my son.
on every side where a caravan takes its proud way behold love, which is the biblical of the caravan, my son.
his love has cast a shadow on the earth like a snare sportsmanlike love is in heaven, my son.
enquire not of me concerning love, enquirer not of any man, enquirer of love itself love in speaking is like a clearinghouse, my son.
love requires not the interpreter service of me and a hundred like me concerning realities love is its own interpreter, my son.
love is not the business of those asleep or soft and delicate, love is the business of the brave and of heroes, my son.
whoso has become the servant of lovers and true ones, he is king, an emperor, a master of fortune, my son.
let not this world full of magic spells lure you away from love, lot this faithless world is leaping away from you, my son.
if the verses of this ode have become long in its joins, the tune has changed but the meaning is the same, my son.
take heed, close your mouth and be silent henceforth like an oyster shell, for this tongue of yours is in reality the enemy of the soul, my son.
tonight is a night of union for the stars and of scattering, scattering, since a bride is coming from the skies, consisting of full moon.
venus cannot contain herselfforcharming melodies, like the nightingale which becomes intoxicated with the rose in springtime.
see how the polestar is ogling leo behold what dust pisces's stirring up from the deep.
jupiter has galloped his steed against ancient saturn, saying, take back your youth and go, bring good tidings.
mars'hand, which was full of blood from the handle of his sword, has become life giving as the sun, the exalted in works.
since aquarius has come full of that water of life, the dry cluster of virgo is raining pearls from him.
the pleiades (nut) full of goodness fears not libra and being broken how should aries flee away in fright from it smother?
when from the moon the arrow of a glance struck the heart of sagittarius, he took to night faring in passion for her, like scorpio.
on such a festival, go, sacrifice taurus, else you are crooked of gait in the mud like cancer.
this sky is the astrolabe, and the reality is love whatever we say of this, attend to the meaninglessness, on that dawn when you shine, the dark night is transformed to bright day by your moon like face.
that beauty handed me a broom saying, stir up the dust from the sea.
he then burned the broom in the fire saying, bring up the broom out of the fire.
in bewilderment i made prostration before him he said, without a prostration, offer a graceful prostration.
ah, how prostrate without a prostration?
he said, unconditionally, without personal impulse.
i lowered my neck and said, cut off'the head of a prostration du qatar the more he struck with the sword, the more my head grew, till heads a myriad sprouted from my neck i was a lamp, and every head of mine was as a wick sparks flew on every side.
candles sprang up out of my heads, east to west was filled with the train.
what are east and west in the place less?
a dark bath stove, and a bath at workbook you whose temperament is cold, where is the anxiety of your heart?
how long this dwelling at rest in these baths?
go forth from the baths and enter not the stove strip yourself, and look upon those paintings and figures, until you behold the ravishing figures, until you behold the hues of the tulip bed.
when you have beheld, look towards the window, forthat beauty became a beauty through the reflection of the window.
the six directions are the bath, and the window is the place less above the window is the beauty of the prince.
earth and water acquired color from his reflection, soul rained on turk and zanzibari.
the day is gone, and my story has not grown short night and day put to shame by his tale.
king the master keeps me intoxicated, crop sickness upon crop sickness.
i went there intoxicated and said, beauty, when you have maddened me, give ear.
he replied, see, in my ear is a ring become fastened to that ring like a pendant.
i quickly reached out to touch his ring he struck me saying, hold back your hand from me.
you will find the way into this ring only when you become royal pearl in purity.
my golden ring, and then a bead.
how should jesus go unto heaven on an ass?
joyous spring has arrived and the beloved's message has come we are drunk with love and intoxicated and cannot bestialmy darling one, go forth to the garden, do not leave the beauties of the meadow in expectation.
strangers from the unseen have arrived in the meadow go forth, for it is a rule that the newcomer is visited.
following your footsteps the rose has come into the rose bower, to greet and meet you the thorn has become soft of cheek cypress, give ear, for the lily in exposition of you has become all tongue by the bank of the river.
the bud was tightly knotted your grace loses knots the rose blossoms thanks to you, and scatters its petals over you.
you might say that it is the resurrection, that there have raised their heads from the earth those who rotted in december and january, the dead of yesteryear.
the seed which had died has now found life, the secret which earth held has now become revealed.
the bough which held fruit is glorying for joy, the root which had none is shame fast and ashamed.
after all, the trees of the spirit will become even so, the tree of excellent boughs and fortunate will be manifest.
the king of spring has drawn up his army and made his provisions the jasmine has seized the shield, the green grass hartford they say, we will cut off the head of grandson like chives behold that visibly enacted in the handiwork of the creator.
yes when the succor of divine assistance arrives, nimrod is brought to destruction by a gnat.
do not slacken the bowstring, for i am your featherbrained do not turn your face away, for i am a man with one heart, not towheaded from you is the striking of the sharp sword, from the heartland soul a hundred consents i am a man of one word like fate, i am not if or perhaps.
if you draw du'far i am constant and firm of foot, i don't feel like the wind, i do not die like a spark.
i will surrender my soul to the sword, i will not say alas the all has made me like a shield for the blows of his sword.
sun, smite with your glow the neck of the night as with sword whence comes the darkness of the nights?
from the forge of muddy earth.
the body is a mine of endurance, the heart is a mine of gratitude, the bosom is a mine of laughter, the er is a mine of compassion make your throne, king, on my head as a cap tightly draw me into your breast as a garment.
someone said, whence has love form and hands?
love is the sprouting bed of every hand and foot in the forms.
did not your father and mother play at love for one moment?
when they were united, one like you made his appearance do not regard love, which without hands made your hand a hand, as being without hand or head look in another fashion you who have eyes to see, the color of all faces, the water of all rivers know these are bossha, the pride of he said, my sugar sweet lip is worth a treasure of pearls.
ah, i have no pearls.
he said, you have not?
then buy.
make a snare for me out of pearls, and if that does not succeed, then borrow.
you have mistaken the house, you lover without silver and gold.
you have come to a gambling match bring a purse full of gold else, leave us and be gone, do not vex and trouble us more.
we are highwaymen, we are renders of garments if you are one of us, come in, drink and drink deep.
we tear to shreds all snares, we devour all properties we are sweeter than all others despite all the blind and deaf.
those who buy garments are different from those who rend them those who rend garments pluck out the mustachios of every garment buyer the moses of the soul plucked out the mustachios of the pharaoh of the body, so that the body becomes all soul, everything ae.
recognize the travelers on the path of his love by their pallid cheeks know that the pearls of love are tears, love's silk the heart's blood.
what is the worth of the gold pale cheek?
say the ruby of the beloved.
what is the worth of the pearl like tear?
say cancellation we are slaves to that saki, till eternity we continue our worlds secure and content, the world lings are passing by.
whoever has been born has died and committed his soul to the guardian angel the lover was born of no man, love has no father if you are not of this face, then sit behind like the nape if you are not the nape, then advance like a shield.
advance like a shield unconscious, and behold how the conscious ones are struck unconscious by the glance of the friend's blow the all has written around the cheek of the beloved the inscription therefore take heed of him, you who have eyes.
since love devours men, it is necessary for a man to make himself a morsel before man devouring love.
you are a sour morsel, and are very long digesting the saints a sweet morsel easy to digest.
do you break the morsel you are, because that mouth is narrow even three elephants would not devour you, save at three gulps.
in face of your greed the elephant itself is a morsel you apelike the babble birds which made the elephant their prey.
you were born of nonentity, come after a long famine to you, fattened bird as food and serpent and snake are the same.
you have come to a hot cauldron now you burn your mouth, now you blacken your clothes and lips and turban.
with nothing are you sated, like the belly of hell, save perchance the almighty creator sets his loot on you, even as he sets his foot on the head of hell, and hell proclaims, enough, i am full, lift up your loot.
the all satiates the eye of the saints and the elect, lot they redeered from self and from greed lot this carrion.
no greed remains in themforknowledge and science, no desire for paradise the lion rider does not seek for ass or camel.
silence.
were i to count his gifts and donations, resurrection day itself would become giddy and confounded at the tally.
come, pride of, true the pines the sun in the spinning skies is your humble slave.
look not for happiness when the beauty's inclination is steno sorrow, for you are prey in the clutches of a lion, my dear friend though the beloved sprinkles plaster on your head, welcome that as if it was tartary musk.
since within you lurks a hidden enemy, there is no repelling that monster save by harshness.
the man who beats a stick on a rug, it is not aimed at the rug, but the whole purpose is to rid the rug of dust.
layers of dust are within you, consisting of the veil of egoism that dust is not got rid of at a single blow with each harshness and each blow, little by litter that is dispersed from the cheek of the heart, now sleeping, now awake.
if you take flight in sleep, in dreams you will see the cruelty of the beloved and the execration of that benefactor.
scraping a stick is not in order to destroy the stick, it is for good purpose in the heart of the carpenter.
for this reason every evil on the all's path is good, for that he will show man pure and refined at the end of the affair, oi consider the hide which the tanner rubs in all manner of filth a thousand times over, so that the inward flaw may go forth from the hide, even though the hide knows naught of little or much.
sun and pride of, you possess great virtues make haste, for you have a mighty power in the secrets.
if a tree could move on foot or wing, it would not suffer the pain of the saw or the blows of the aceand if the sun did not travel on wing and foot all the night, how would the world be illumined at morning tide?
if the salt water did not rise from the sea to the sky, whence would the garden be revived by torrent and rain?
when the drop departed from its homeland and returned, it encountered a shell and became a pearl.
did not joseph go from his father on a journey, weeping?
did he not on the journey attain felicity and kingdom and victory?
did not mustang.
go on a journey towards catherine, gain sovereignty, and become king of a hundred lands?
and you if you have no foot, choose to journey into yourself like a ruby mine be receptive to a print from the sunbeams.
make a journey out of self into self, my master, forby such journey earth became a mine of gold.
go out of sourness and bitterness towards sweetness, just ass thousand sorts of fruits have escaped out of bitterness.
seek sweetness from the sun, the pride of, for every fruit gains comeliness from the light of the sun.
look on me, for i shall be your companion in the grave on that night when you pass across from shop and house.
you will hear my greeting in the tomb, and you will be aware that not for a moment you have been veiled from my eyes.
i am like reason and mind within your veil, alike in time of pleasure and happiness and in the hour of pain and weariness.
on the strange night, when you hear the voice familiar, you will escape from the bite of snake and leap away from the horror of antlove's intoxication will bring to your grave, as a gift, wine and mistress and candle and meats and sweets and incense.
on the hour when we light the lamp of the intellect, what tumult of joy shall go up from the dead in the tombs.
the dust of the graveyard will be confounded by those cries, by the din of the drum of resurrection, the pomp and panoply of the uprising shrouds rent asunder, two ears stopped up in terror what shall avail brain and ear before the blast of the trumpet?
on whatever side you gaze, you will behold my form, whether you gaze on yourself or towards that uproar and confusion.
flee from disinterestedness, and make good both your eyes, for the evil eye on that day will be far from my beauty.
beware of mistaking me in a human shape, forthe spirit is very subtle, and love is exceedingly jealous.
what room is there for form, if the felt be a hundredfold?
iris the rays of the soul's mirror that pitch the flag visibly.
beat the drum, and wind towards the minstrels of the city it is the day of purification to the grown lads of the road of love.
had they sought the all, instead of morsel and pence, you would not have seen one blind man seated on the edge of the moat what sort of ogling house have you opened in our city.
mouth shut, shoot out glances, like light.
my bowl has broken, and no wine has remained to me, and i am dropsical let shames din set in order my disordered estate prince of the world of vision, lamp of the world of revelation, to whom the spirits make heartfelt obeisance from afar, that his hand may bring out of the sea of bewilderment thousand souls and spirits drowned and utterly whelmed.
if heaven and earth were filled with the darkness of unbelief, when he shines, his rays flood all that with light.
that pure radiance which the angels discover from him if it should reach the sat ans, they would all become hawk man.
and even if that light belonged not for a single day to the devil, he would veil the devil with the veils of his bountifulness.
on the day of festival, when he begins to dispense, on every side is a marriage feast, in every quarter a wedding party.
from the direction of that sun shines the atoms come to life as at the blast of the trumpet.
zephyr, for the all's sake and by the right of bread and salt for every dawn i and you have been rejoiced by him when you come to the end of the frontiers of the unseen world, pass over them, and be not lazy as one sick and suffering.
on that wing which you have gotten from him flyforthousand years'journey will not be far from your wing.
fly and when your wing becomes weary, prostrate yourself for the sake of my state, weary of soul and sundered of heart tell him with tears that since the time of our separation, mayday has become black and my hairs camphor white you are he who dips in the sea of compassion all the sinners of the world, and makes them forgiven.
if the seeing eye cannot penetrate to your soul, he who has no eye may truly be excused.
so contrived by entreaty as to bring the dust of his feet to the eye, for this sickness is gangrenous.
and when, zephyr, you return prospering from this journey, you will stir up commotion and sparks indeed in existence and nonexistence alike.
when you bring me his eye salve, may a thousand new compassion be upon your soul for centuries beyond reckoning.
minstrel of the lovers, shake the string, strike fire into believer and infidel.
silence is not the proper course of love unveil the face of welfare until the infant in the cradle weeps, how shall the anxious mother give it milk?
whatever is other than the phantom of the beloved is the thorn of love, even if it be a rose bower minstrel, when you have reached to dilate my heart, have scare you have set your foot in blood set your foot slowly, lest a drop of the heart's blood splash out on the wall.
minstrel, observe well the wounds of the heart so long as they are not conscious of their pain, be at ease.
minstrel, mention the name of the beloved who has robbed our heart of fortitude and quietude.
what have i said?
where has a heart remained still?
if my heart were a mountain, it had gone out of control.
speak his name, and name me less, that i may nickname you excellent of speech.
when i speak of how he moves, where does my heart go?
brave movement indeed.
theif, you are the jesus of the age in your age there is such a sick one.
who has compassion on a friend?
a friend likewise.
who hears the sigh of the sick?
the sick.
where are the tears of sympathetic spring, that they may fill the thorn's skirt with roses?
mention often the demolishes of joy give ear to pitiless autumn the cave becomes paradise, when he is in it the second of w, when the were in the cave.
heaven splits in two at the sigh of a lover the lamentation of lovers is not to be despised.
heaven revolves lot the sake of lovers on account of love the sky spins around, not for the sake of baker and smith, not for the sake of carpenter and druggist.
the skies rotate about love rise, that we may also circle around consider who said, but for thee i would not have created ahmad the chosen is the mine of love.
for a while let us circle about lover hood how long shall we circle about this carrion?
where is the eye to behold the spirits, putting their heads out from door and wall?
door and wall tell subtleties, fire and earth and water rehearse a tail like the balance, the yardstick and the touchstone they are without tongue, yet arbiters of the market.
lover, circle about like the sky, silent from speaking, and altogether speech.
so drunk am i, so drunk am i today that i have leaped out of the hoop today.
such a thing as never enters the mind, even so am i, even spam i today.
in spirit i departed to the heaven of love, even though inform i am in this low world today.
i took reason by the ear and said, reason, go out, for i have escaped from you today.
reason, wash your hands of me, for i am joined with themed lover today.
that joseph gave into my hand an orange as a result, i have wounded both my hands today.
that jug full of wine has brought me to such a state that have broken so many jars today.
i do not know where i am, but it is a blessed station in which i am today.
good fortune came coquettishly to my door out of drunkenness i closed the door to him today.
when he returned, i kept running after him, i did not sit down for a moment today.
since we are nearer has been realized, i will not worship myself any more today.
do not tie up that tress, the master, for i am likes fish in this net today.
the love of that cherishes of lovers has come to his townhouse love has in form conceiving a form melting all forms.
you have come to your own house welcome, enter.
your coming is with joy enter by the door of the heart, run to the vestibule of the soul.
every mote of my being is in love with your sun take heed, for motes have long transaction with the sun.
see how before the window the motes gracefully suspended beat whoever has the sun for a fibula prays after this fashion.
in the concert of the sun these notes are like sufi no one knows to what recitation, to what rhythm, to what harmony.
in every heart there is a different note and rhythm, all stamping feet outwardly, and the minstrels hidden like a secret.
loftier than all is our inward concert, our particles dancing therein with a hundred kinds of glory and prideful, you are the sultan of the sultans of the soul no malamud like you ever came into being, nor like me anyway night is broad and long for the sake of lovers and thieves, come, strumpet night, and do the business of both.
i steal carnelians and pearls from the sultan's treasury, i am not mean that i should steal the draper's cloth.
within the veil of the nights there are subtle thieves who by cunning find a way to the roof of the house of mystery.
my ambition in night faring and knavery is nothing less than the king's treasury and the carnelian of that king of glory.
the cheek before whose onslaught night remains no more in the world brave lamp, which lights the sun and fashions the moon.
all the needs of men are granted on the night of power, for power attained that exaltation from a full moon like you.
you are all, and beyond all what else is there, that it should enter the imagination that anyone is your peer?
pass away from this open wide your ears, fori am beginning a tale entirely rare and strange.
since you have not seen messiah, give ear to the legend fly like a white falcon towards the falcon drum since you are a coin of red gold, receive the seal of the king if you are not red gold, then why all this snipping?
in the time when you became a treasure you did not realize that, wherever a treasure is, the informer sets to work.
bring your treasure, and play no tricks, for you will not escape by vaporizing and prostration and commemoration and abstinence and prayer.
do you steal, and then sit in the corner of the mosque saying, i am the jun aid of the age, the ba dazzled of supplication?
give back the cloth, then get on with your abstinence donor make feeble excuses and babble your tale.
hush your pretexts, for in this station men do not purchase single grain by dissimulation and artful trickery.
seize the skirt of felicity of theif, that your perfection may be embroidered from the magic of his sleeve.
sour faced one, in my presence you spoke evil of me the mouth of the vulture always smells of carrion.
your filthy words became apparent in your face vileness sever manifest in the face and complexion of the nobody.
i have a friend and beloved, so go on grinding away at death and enmity take heed, the ocean was never defiled byte mouth of any dog.
though the holy city has become filled with frankish pigs, after all how has that brought the holy temple a bad name?
this is the face of the mirror joseph shines in it the back, however that it is gilded, is a stranger.
if the bat thinks evil, the sun is not grieved how is the unimpaired, if the shadow is upside down?
jesus was a laughter, john the baptist a frowned the former laughed out of trust, the latter frowned from fear.
they said, power, which of these two is better in your eyes?
which of these two is better in the well founded path?
the all said, he is superior who thinks better thoughts of me the good thoughts of the sinner leave him not defiled.
you are a frowned not out of fear and religious aspiration, you are pale from envy or dark red from gloating.
neither of these gets anywhere, they are proper only to the fire woe to him in whom envy is rooted.
let it go from your hand cursed is it whoever is enemy of the moon has only shadows.
know for sure, sun, that bats are your enemies, they are disgrace to all birds, fellow prisoners in brooding night.
the sun's enemy is docked, that rank does not remain to him how long shall the mote there remain if it falls into the eye?
consorts of the moon are your two mars, which are those two eyes of yours, darling with that hart and murat of yours draw the litigious ones to babylon.
solomon, with that ring (for you are the sealing of all the fair ones) by force drag in chains all the dibs and perils you have opened the treasure of beneficence for the sake boffins and men draw the likeness of we have given thee over the needy beggar.
illumine the body with the spirit, root up envy utterly fix the gaze on the orient skies, draw the reason into problems.
when the lip recites praise, give it dessert and wine uni timed when it recites nor those astray, do you draw it into guiding proofs.
when the soul hurries towards you, give it a candle to find the way when it seeks your sun, draw it like the moon into the houses.
give the crop sick lover the wine of kamikazes'cup draw before the thoughts of the man of reason hairsplitting handcraft with the advancing of your favors draw the spirit and make it receptive draw your acceptance and investiture towards the receptive soul.
to the prisoner of pain and regret give the message of do not despair draw him slain of love for your beauty from this slaying place to the slayer if this body is infidel at heart, propose testimony to it and if this spirit is fruitless, what matters that?
draw it to the fruit.
quicken it, and if you cannot, make messiah you're deputy grant it union, or if you grant it not, draw it by your grace to the power of grace.
earthy one, the earth trembled when it saw that holiness and purity recite when it is shaken, draw the vision into trembling.
make an end of it, at once, for you are the king of state and word whoever proffers speech, do you draw a line over speech and speaker.
the fair one whom i am seeking with all my soul i do not seamount those present here.
where has he gone?
he is not amongst those present i don't see any sign of him in this assembly.
i am casting my gaze in every direction and every place i don't see any trace of his rose bower.
muslims, where has he gone, that illustrious one whom used to behold in the midst like a candle?
speak his nameforwhoever has spoken his name, his bone will not crumble in the tomb.
blessed is the man who has kissed his hand at the time of death his mouth has become sweet.
shall i give thanks for his countenance, or his character?
fourth world beholds none his like.
if earth does not find his form, what matters it, seeing that his heaven revolves in this love?
speak the nicknames of the mistress do not keep him concealed from the ears of the yearners.
last night i went into the midst of the assembly of my kingi saw my soul in a beaker in the hand of the saki.
i said to him, soul of the soul of the skis, for the all's sake fill me a measure, and do not break your pledge.
smiling sweetly he said, noble sir, i do you service i respect you by the right and respect of my faith.
he brought a cup and kissed it and placed it in my hand, full of wine shining like his own shining cheeks.
i prostrated before him and drew the bowl to me the wine lighted a fire in me from its own brazier.
when the saki had poured continuously and dispensed form many glasses after that wise, that wine like red gold transported me to its own quarry.
i saw my garden fresh and with the rose of his cheek saw my bread well baked with his hyacinths brow.
let every man find his own fortune and portion in a tavern who am i?
i have found true sympathy to belong to me.
i saw the pardoner there biting hard his hand, hair splitting in his wallet like the back (and sees the face), champ hurrah turning his lace to his own moon and seventh heaven the pardoner plunged in thought, seeking proof and demonstration, but hurrah his own proof and his own demonstration.
not every jar is suitable for wine beware, stop up the jar, that the saki may produce another jar from his own cellar.
i make this enough, that the prince of the assembly may tell you the tale of his own myriad secret assemblies.
i am you, you are i, friend do not depart from your own breast do not deem yourself other, do not drive yourself from your own door.
do not mislead head and loot through your endless temptation, that as one bewildered i should stamp the foot of cruelty on my own head.
the one who like a shadow is never apart from your form, is i do not, beloved, draw your dagger against your shadow.
tree, in every direction of which there are thousands of shadows, cherish the shadows and do not cut them off from their source.
hide all the shadows and naught them in the light disclose the countenance of the sun of your radiant cheek.
the heart's kingdom has become disordered through wholeheartedness mount the throne, do not step down from your own pulpit.
reason is the crown so ‘all spoke in a similitude bestow on the throne a new jewel out of your own essence.
my drunkenness of today is not like yesterday's drunkenness do you not believe me?
take a glass, and drink.
i am drowned in wine the waters have carried away my reason.
intellect said, farewell, i will not become sober again.
reason and intellect have departed in madness out of the world, like a pot over brimming when it boils beyond measure.
this mad, intoxicated heart burst its bonds and escaped donor argue with the drunkards say nothing depart keep silent.
at dawn the watchman said to me from the ladder, last night i heard an uproar proceeding from the seventh heaven.
saturn said to venus, ‘strike your plectrum more bendy leo, seize taurus by the horns and milk him.
'see how as a result of terror the milk in taurus'nipples has turned to blood.
behold how the leo of the skies out of fear has become like a mouse.
leo, charge fiercely how long will you flee like a cur?
make display, moon laced one how long will you veil your face?
open your eyes to the six directions, behold the glittering of the light open your ears to heaven, you whose eyes have become ears.
hear the greeting from the soul, that you may escape from speech gaze upon the form fashioner, that you may escape from the forms.
i said to him, master, go, say, let what will be be i am pure and newly free, slave to the dregs seller fear and hope lot you are assigned to the reason wild creatures are the game for your grain and snare.
since the dregs of his anguish have taken me into protection, speak not to me of these things that task is yours do laborious.
when union with the beloved showed itself to murmansk, twas right that the gallows should bring him to the heart's origin.
i snatched a cap's length from his robe his cap's length consumed my reason and head and foot.
i broke off a thorn from the top of the wall of his garden why itching and questing is in my heart from that thorn of his.
since one morning through his wine this heart became periodontal, it is only meet that it should be smitten by the monster of separation from him.
through heaven's colt appeared refractory and untamed, twas tethered and head stalled by the hand of his love.
though reason is high ranking and very learned, its gown and turban have been pawnedforthe cup of love.
many a heart came seeking refuge from his love dragging it along he dragged it to him, and gave it no quarter.
one cold day a fur coat was in a river i said to a naked man, jump in and seek, and bring it out.
it was not a fur coat, it was a bear in the river it had fallen in, and the current was carrying it along.
the man entered eagerly and reached the skin of the bearthat eagerness made him prisoner in the bear's arms.
i said to him, let go the fur coat, come back.
howling and far you have remained through toiling and battling with it.
he said, go the coat has so seized me that i have no hope of escape from its powerful clutches.
every moment it immerses me a thousand times there is no escape from its lover squeezing claws.
silence, of stories enough just give a hint what need has the reason for long volumes?
they say, the king of love is not faithful.
lies.
they say, your night will never have a dawn.
lies.
they say, why do you slay yourself for love's sake?
there ions survival after the body's death.
lies.
they say, your tears shed in love are vain once the eyes are closed, there will be no encounter.
lies.
they say, when we have gone outside the cycle of time, beyond this soul of ours will not travel.
lies.
those persons who have not escaped from fancy say, the stories of the prophets were all mere fancies.
lies.
those persons who have not gone on the right way say, the servant has no way to come to the all.
lies.
they say, he who knows all secrets tells not the servant the secrets and mysteries of the unseen without intermediary.
lies.
they say, they open not to the servant the heart's secret, and he does not graciously carry the servant up to heaven.
lies.
they say, that one who has earth in his composition will never be familiar with the heavenly host.
lies.
they say, the pure soul will never fly on the wings of love out of this earthly nest to the free air.
lies.
they say, that sun of the all will never bring retribution for the several atoms'weight of evil and good of men.
lies.
keep silent from speaking and if anyone says to you, speech has no other expression but letters and sounds lies.
we two or three reprobates have gathered together on this side like camels, face to face, muzzles plunged in the provender from left and right every camel is coming, raging with desire, lips thrust out like camels, bringing up foam.
do not worry not every camel finds the way to this sheep cote, for they are in the lowlands and we are on top of the mountain how shall any attain the mountaintop by stretching up his neck?
even though they bark like dogs, we will not worry about their barking.
if the world becomes all sea, enter the ark of noah how should noah's ark be overwhelmed and destroyed?
we are a mine of emeralds, a bane to the eye of the snake he who is bitten by sorrow, his portion is woe is me.
all the world is full of grief in quest of rank and money wear happy and glad and revered, drunk with joy in this protection.
the agnostics have become drunk minstrel of prognosis, come, quickly utter a quatrain, come forward, take the tambourine.
cast wind into the forest, blow on the head of cypress and willow, that willow and tree rank by rank may toss their heads when the willow is dry and bald, it has neither leaves nor fruit how should it move its head to the breath and wind of donor fear?
the remedy for the dry and successors is the blast divine, for he is engaged on action one by one, he is not weak and contemptible the dry palm tree gave fruit to a mary by the fiat of the all the dead found life anew from the breath divine.
if the fool wags his chin, do not lose the path of love choose the trade of love, count as folly all other trades.
when you complete one ode, recite the praises of shamming and recall, despite the villainous adversary.
i have no need of wine, i am indifferent to lees and pure liquor i thirst for my own blood, the time of battle has come.
draw the sharp sword, shed the blood of the envious until the head without the body matriculates about its own body make a mountain of skulls, make a sea of our blood, that earth and sand may drink blood in great gulps.
you who are aware of my heart, go, do not stop up my mouth, else my heart will split, the blood will leap out of thereat do not listen to the tumult, show no special favor land ownership authority are not so handwoven.
i will enter the heart of the fire, i will become a morsel for the fire foretelling what, have they cut the navel of the sylphlike soul?
fire is our child, it thirsts and is in bondage to us we two are one so that no difference may prevail.
why does it crackle and smoke?
because two colorlessness instill there when it becomes fuel, it no longer crackles boastfully.
or if it leaps half ablaze, it now becomes a coal, heartrending blackface, seeking union and marriage.
the fire says, go, you are black and i am white.
the fuel says, you are burnt, i am preserved.
this side of it no face, that side of it no face, making seclusion in blackness between the two friends like an exiled mosley, no way for him to come to people nor to emperor, left on one side like the fringe of a garment.
rather, he is like the ‘ana which was greater than all the birds, but having no way to the sky, remained upon that mountain of oaf what am i to say to you?
for you are fixed in your grief for bread, your back curved like a lam, your heart constricted like aka trouble seeker, dash that pitcher against a rock, that may not draw river water, that i may not suck it up.
i will abandon water carrying, i will drown myself in the sea, far from warfare and conflict, unaware of any description, like pure spirits under the earth, their bodies like a bride with earth on them for a coverlet.
look at that false prince with his little horse and tilde saddle, knavish and scoundrel, his head bound in cloth of gold since he disbelieves in death, he says, where, where is doom?
death comes to him from all six directions and says, here am i. doom says to him, donkey, where now is all that galloping about?
those mustaches, that arrogant nose, that pride, that wrath?
where is the beautiful idol, where happiness?
to whom have you given your coverlet?
a brick is now your pillow, your mattress the earth.
bid farewell to eating and sleeping go seek the true religion, that you may be a prince of eternity without your tilde laws and customs do not soul this soul do not convert this bread to dung, you who have flung the pearl into the bottom of the dung know that we are attached to dung for the pearl's sake, soul be broken, and seek the pearl, proud and conceited one when you see a man of the all, act like a man and offer him service when you experience anguish and affliction, do not furrow your brow.
this is my lampoon, body, and that prince of mine is also how long will you go on speaking of little sins and shins?
oi the stag i, you are yourself the water of life what shall discover that water, save the tearful eye?
what, lover hood and then concern for name and shame?
that should not be love's village is stone on stone.
if you become lame from everything, depart far away what, a far and stony way, and a lame man?
if death is a man, let him come before me that i may draw him fondly and tightly into my bosomi will carry off from him a soul without hue and scent, he will seize from me a cloak of many colors impose on your soul the cruelty and tyranny of the beloved or if you will not, then welcome to war and war.
if you do not desire the scraping of his polishing, then belie a mirror full of rust.
lay your hand on your eye and say, with all my eye.
open your eye do not gaze distraught and stupefied.
i cried out at midnight, who is in this house of the heart?
he said, it is i, by whose countenance the sun and the moon are put to shame.
he said, why is this house of the heart full of all sorts of images?
i said, these are the reflections of you, whose face is the envy of chilihe said, what is this other image, full of the heart's blood?
i said, this is the image of me, heart wounded and feet in the mire.
i bound the neck of my soul and brought it before him as token it is a sinner of love do not acquit your sinner.
he gave me the end of a thread, a thread full of mischief handcraft he said, pull, that i may pull, pull and at the same timed not break.
from that tent of the soul the form of my turk flashed out fairer than before i reached my hand towards him he struck my hand, saying, let go.
i said, you have turned harsh, like grandson he said, know that i am harsh for a good purpose, not harsh out franco and spite.
whoever enters in saying, ‘it is i, 'i strike him on the brow, for this is the sanctuary of love, animal, it is not a sheep cote.
shaken is truly the image of that turk rub your eyes, and behold the image of the heart, the image of the heart why does the soul not take wing, when from the presence of glory the address of grace like sugar comes to the soul saying, come up?
how should a fish not leap nimbly from the dry land into theater, when the sound of waves reaches its ear from the limpid sea?
why should the falcon not fly from the quarry towards the king, when it hears from drum and drumstick the tidings return?
why should not every sufi begin to dance like a mote in the sun of immortality, that it may deer him from decay?
such grace and beauty and loveliness and life bestowing canny man dispense with him?
what misery and error.
fly, fly, bird, to your origin, for you have escaped from the cage and your feathers and wings are outspread.
journey away from the brackish water towards the water of life return to the high table of the soul from the porter's lodge.
off, off.
for we too, soul, are arriving from this world of separation to that world of union.
how long like children in this earthly world shall we fill outskirts with dust and stones and crocks?
let us leave go of earth and fly heavenwards, let us flee from childhood to the banquet of men.
look not to see how the earthly mold has put you in a sack split the sack and lift your head out of the sack.
take from the air this book in your right hand you are not child, not to know your right from your left.
the all said to reason's messenger, lift up your loot, to the hand of death, beat the ear of concupiscence.
a call came to the spirit, speed away into the unseen take the gain and the treasure, and lament the pain no more.
do you call aloud, and proclaim that you are king your sis the grace of the answer, and yours is the knowledge of the question i this time i am wholly involved in lover hood, this time i am wholly cut off from wellbeing.
i have plucked out my heart from myself, i am ing with something else, i have burned up from root and stock reason and heart and thought.
men, men, manhood comes from me no more the madman even does not meditate what i have meditated in my heart the unlucky madman has fled from my turbulence i am commingled with death, i have flown into not being today my reason has become wholly disgusted with me it desires to terrify me, thinking that i have no eyes.
why indeed should i be afraid of it?
i have put on a grimace for its sake.
how should i be confused?
but i am purposely so confounded am quit of the bowl of the stars and the blood of the skies i have licked many a bowl for the benefit of the congress people for a good purpose i have remained in the prison of this world what have i to do with prison?
whose property have stolen?
in the body's prison i am drowned in blood, and of theaters of every stubborn one's eyes i have rubbed in the dusty bloodstained outskirt like an infant in the womb my nurture is of blood ordinary men are born once, i have been born many times.
examine me as much as you will, you will not recognize me, for i have become a hundred different manners from what you have seen me to be.
enter my eye and behold me with my own sight, for i have chosen a dwelling place beyond all sight.
you are drunk, drunk and happy, i am drunk and happy, without a head you are a lover with laughing lips, i am laughing without any mouth.
a strange bird am i, who of my own desire, without snare or catcher, have crept into the cage for the cage in the company of friends is sweeter than orchard and garden to please the josephs i have reposed in the well do not bewail his blow, do not claim sickness i have given hundred sweet es to purchase this calamity.
like a silkworm at the cost of suffering you enter into satin and silk give ear to a silkworm that has withered in the very garment you have withered in the tomb of the body go before misfile saying, for my sake blow on the trumpet, for i am weary of the tomb of the body.
no, no, like the well tried falcon hood your eyes from yourself i have put on brocade like a fine peacock.
bow your head to the physician saying, give me the antidote, for in this pleasant net i have swallowed many poisons before the confectioner of the soul you will become sweet and sweet of soul, for from the confection of the soul i have waxed great as a sugarcane.
he will make your essence confection better than by giving hundred confections i have not heard the delight of the soul's confection save from his lips.
be silent, for in speaking the confection falls out of the mouth without speech a man catches a scent such as i have snuffed every unripe grape is lamenting, theif, come, for on account of ripeness and lack of savor i groan within myself yesterday my darling placed a golden crown on my head however many blows you may strike, it will not fall from my head the cap stitching king of eternity from his brows on my brows sets the nightcap of love, so of course it remainsforever.
and even if my head does not remain with the cap, i will become all head like the moonformy pearl will appear brighter without casket and shell.
here is my head, and there a heavy mace strike, to make proof and if this bone breaks, i am more full of marrow than intellect and soul.
that nut lacking pith which has chosen the husk how shall it have perceived the relish of the almond essence of my prophet?
a sweetmeat full of his nuts, his sugar, and almonds sweetens my throat and lip, gives light to my eyes.
when you discover the pith, my son, and have learned to disregard the husk, when you have entered the quarter of jesus, you will not any more say, where is my ass?
my soul, how long will you complain?
give up one ass from the herd behold the stoutness of the rider, not my slaughterhouse know that the stoutness of the lover derives from the stoutness of his beloved, for the pride of lovers arises from i am the all most great.
oisighing pains, do not say ah, ah, say allah speak not of the well, speak of the throne, joseph my malnourished i was dead, i became ae i was weeping, i became laughing the power of love came, and i became everlasting power my eye is satiated, my soul is bold, i have the heart of a lion, i have become shining venus.
he said, you are not mad, you are not appropriate to this house i went and became mad, i became bound unshackles he said, you are not intoxicated go, for you belong not to this party i went and became intoxicated, i became overflowing with joy.
he said, you are not slain, you are not drenched in joy before his life giving face i became slain and cast down.
he said, you are a clever little man, drunk with fancy and doubt i became a fool, i became straightened, i became plucked up out of all.
he said, you have become a candle, the fibula of this assembly i am not of assembly, i am not candle, i have become scattered smoke.
he said, you are sheikh and headman, you are leader and guide i am not a sheikh, i am not a leader, i have become slave to your command.
he said, you have pinions and wings, i will not give you wings and pinions in desire for his pinions and wings i became wingless and impotent new fortune said to me, go not on the way, do not become pained, for out of grace and generosity i am now coming to you.
old love said to me, do not move from my breast i said, yes, i will not, i am at rest and remain.
you are the fountain of the sun, i am the shadow of the willow when you strike my head, i become low and melting.
my heart felt the glow of the soul, my heart opened and split, my heart wove a new satin, i became enemy of this ragged one the form of the soul at dawn swaggered insolently i was slave and an ass driver, i became king and power.
your paper gives thanks for your limitless sugar, for it came into my embrace, and i dwelt with it.
my darling earth gives thanks for my bent sky and sphere, forthrough its gaze and circling i became light receiving the sphere of heaven gives thanks for king and kingdom and angel, for through his generosity and bounty i have become bright and bountiful.
the gnostic of the all gives thanks that we have outraced all above the seven layers i have become a shining star.
i was venus, i became the moon, i became the two hundredfold sly i was joseph, henceforth i have become the waxing joseph.
famous moon, i am yours, look upon me and yourself, for from the trace of your smile i have become a smiling rose garden move silently like a chessman, yourself all tongue, for through the face of the king of the world i have become happy and blissful.
of these two thousand i's and we'd i wonder, which one am i?
give ear to my babble, do not lay your hand on my mouth.
since i have gone out of control, do not put glass on bypath, for if you do i will stamp and break all that i find.
because every moment my heart is confused with your fantasy, if you are joyous i am joyful, if you are sorrowing i am sorrowful you give bitterness and i become bitter, you give grace and i become all grace with you it is pleasant, my sugar lipped, sweet chinned idol.
you are the original what person am i?
a mirror in your hand whatever you show, that i become, i am a overproduction you are like the cypress of the meadow, i am like your shadow since i have become the shadow of the rose, i have pitched my tent beside the rose.
if without you i break off a rose, it will become a thorn inky hand and if i am all thorn, through you i am all rose and jasmine every moment i drain a bloody beaker of the blood of my heart every instant i break my own pitcher against the salvadorian every second i reach out my hand towards the skirt of an idol, that he may scratch my cheek, that he may rend my shirt.
the grace shone in the midst of my heart is the heart's candle in the world who am i?
eli bowl.
i saw a tree and a fire.
a call came, my darling.
that fire miscalling me am i moses son of ‘iran?
i entered the wilderness with affliction, and tasted manna and quails for forty years like moses i am wandering about this desert ask not about ship and sea come, look at these marvels how that for so many years i have been sailing a ship in this dry land come, soul.
you are moses, and this bodily form is your staff when you pick me up i become a staff, when you cast me down i am a serpent.
you are jesus and i am your bird you made a bird out of clay just as you breathe on me, even so i fly in the zenith.
i am the pillar of that mosque against which the prophet leaned when he leans against another, i moan from the pain of separation power of powers and formless maker of forms, what form are you drawing over me?
you know i do not know.
now i am stone, now iron for a while i am all fire now i am a balance without a weight, now i am both weight and balance.
for one time i pasture here, another they pasture on menow i am a, now a sheep, now the form of a shepherd.
the material body came as a token how shall the token remain forever?
neither this remains nor that he who is mine knows that i am that.
i circumnavigate with the pilgrims, i circle around the beloved i have not the character of dogs, i do not go around carrion i am like a gardener shovel laid on my neck, searching for cluster of dates i go around the thorns not the kind of dates which, when you have eaten them, turn to phlegm and make one bilious, but the kind that make swings to grow so that i circle like iyar the world is a snake, and below it is a treasure very hidden i am on top of the treasure, and circle about it like the tail of snake i am not grieving for a grain, though about this house circle deep in thought like the heron.
i do not seek a house in the village, neither ox and fat herd, but i am intoxicated with the prince and circle seeking the prince.
i am the companion of and momentously seek his approach, loot fast and circling, for like compasses i circle.
do you not know that i am sick?
for i am seeking galen do you not see that i am dropsical?
for i circle the vintner.
do you not know that i am simulator?
for i fly around oaf do you not know that i have caught the scent?
for i circle about the rose bower count me not one of these men recognize a phantom circling if i am not a phantom, soul, why do i circle about the secrets?
why do i not become still?
i beat about this and that, forge has undermined me and made me drunk, therefore i circle unevenly you say to me, go not so hurriedly, forthat shows disrespect i am ashamed of respect, therefore i circle shame.
i made bread my pretext, but i am intoxicated with the baker it is not about gold i circle, i circle about vision.
in every image which confronts me i behold the engraver know that it is for love of that like maj nun i circle.
in this palace of sacrifices in which is not contained even the head, i, bewildered, am pardonable if i circle without turban i am not a flame moth burning my wings and pinions, i am moth of the king, for i circle about the lights.
why do you bite my lips privily saying, be silent, do not speak?
is it not your doing, your craft too that i circle about speech?
come, theif, like twilight although you flee like twilight in the track of your sun i circle about these lands.
i am not that luckless lover, to flee from the beloved i donor hold that dagger in my hand to flee from barrie i am that plank with which the carpenter has much to do, io not shrink from the ace or flee from the nails.
i am unselfish like a plank, i think not to oppose the asian fit only for the flames if i flee from the carpenter.
i am as a worthless and cold stone if i do not journey oft to grubbiness i am as a dark and narrow cave if i flee from the companion of the cave.
i do not feel the kiss of the peace if i flee from selflessness do not catch the scent of tartary musk if i flee from the tartar.
i am distressed with myself because i am not contained it is meet, when the head is not contained, if i flee from the turban.
many centuries are required for this fortune to emerge where shall i find it again, if this time i flee?
it is not that i am sick and unmanly, that i shun the fair ones it is not that my bowels are corrupt, that i flee from the vintner i am not mounted on a packsaddle to remain then in the arena i am not a farmer of this village, to flee from the prince.
i say, my heart, have done my heart replies, i am in the quarry of gold, why should i flee from the lavishing of riches?
when the thunder and lightning laugh, i recite paeans of praise, i am full of light as the clear sky, i am circling around the moon my tongue is knotted like moses because of the pharaohs, for jealousy lest a pharaoh should discover my proof.
bind my hands if you find me in the encampment of a pharaoh, for i am the sultan's spy.
i am not a spy, i am not a scandal, i am one of the secrets of sanctity let me go, since i am drunk, that i may let fly a vaunt.
from wine wind arises, for wine stirs up wind, especially the kind of wine through which i am distraught.
if a whiff of this wine were to reach all the world's ascetics, what a desolation then will appear, what shall i say?
i know not.
why speak of the wine?
for if a whiff of those drunkards were to penetrate stone and marble, they would brag, i am the water of life.
my being is a bachelor's apartment, and those drunkards are gathered together therein my heart is distraught to know whether i am one of them amazing.
or myself i am they.
whether i am their convener, or whether i am other than they, i do not know all i know is this, that i am in peace indwelling i went to the physician of the soul, i said, look at my hand.
i am heart lorn and sick at once, both lover and intoxicated.
i have a hundred ailments would that they were all one.
with all these distemper i have reached the very end.
he said, were you not dead?
i said, yes, but when your scent came to me i leaped out of the grave.
that spiritual form, that orient divine, that joseph of on whose account i wounded my hand, gently, gently came towards me and laid a hand on my heart he said, of what band are you?
i said, of this band.
when i brawled he gave me wine, and i drank my pale cheek glowed and i ceased to brawl.
then i stripped off my clothes, i raged like a drunkard, i satin that drunkards'ring, on the right hand.
i drank a hundred jars, i roared a hundred ways, i scattered hundred glasses, i shattered a hundred pitchers.
those folk worshiped the golden calf i am a mangy calf, if i do not worship love.
again the spiritual king is secrecy calling me, he is drawing me up royally from these depths.
i am loot tied to you, soul, i am intoxicated with you, my soul, i am in your hand, my soul, whether i am arrow orthogonal if i am nimble, you make me so, if i am drunk you make emos, if i am lowly you make me so, if i am in being, you make me so.
you brought me into the circling sphere when you intoxicated me with you since now you have sealed the vat, i too have closed my mouth.
not for one single moment do i let hold of you, for you army whole concern, you are my whole affair.
i eat and enjoy your candy, i labor at your counseling i am a heart wounded quarry, you are my departmentalization you might say that my soul and your soul are one i swear by this one soul that i care not for other than you.
i am a bunch of herbs from the garden of your beauty, i am a strand of your union's robe of honor around you this world is thorn on the top of a wall in the hope of culling the rose of union it is a thorn that i scratch.
since the thorn is like this, how must be your rose bower.
you whose secrets have swallowed and borne away my secrets my soul, in the sky the sun is the moon's companion i know that you will not leave me in this assembly of strangers.
i went to a dervish and he said, may the all befriend you.
you might say that through his blessing a king such as you became my friend.
i beheld the whole world to be a painting on the gates of bath you who have taken my turban away, likewise towards you stretch my handhold every convener bursts his chain to come to his convenerwhose convener am i, who am held fast in this snare here?
like a thief, my soul, you ever steal around me i know what you are seeking, crafty sweetheart of mine.
my soul, you are hiding a candle under the cloak, you desire to set fire to my stool and rick.
my rose bower and rose garden, cure of my sickness, joseph's of my vision and luster of my market, you are circling round my heart, i am circling round your door circling am i giddily in your hand like a compass.
in the gladness of your face if i tell the tale of woe, if then sorrow drinks my blood, by allah, i deserve it.
to the beat of the tambourine of your decree all these creatures are dancing without your melody does a single lute string dance?
i do not think so.
the voice of your tambourine is hidden, and this dance of the world is visible hidden is that itch, wherever i scratch.
i will be silent out of jealousy, because from your sugarcane ian a cloud scattering sugar, it is only your candy that i rain.
i am in water, in earth, in fire, in air these tour are all around me, but i am not of these four.
now i am turk, now hindu, now the master, now izanagi it is of your engraving, my soul, that i believe or disbelieve.
, my heart and soul are with bossha here, even though in body i vex him no more.
i am a painter, a picture maker, every moment i fashion an idol, then before you i melt away all the idols, i raise up a hundred images and mingle them with spirit when i see your image, i cast them in the fire.
you are the vintner's saki or the enemy of the sober, or throne who lays waste every house i build.
over you the soul is poured forth, with you it is mingled since the soul has the perfume of you, i will cherish the soul.
every drop of blood that flows out of me says to your dust, i am one in color with your love, i am the playmate of your affection in the house of water and clay this heart without you is desolate either enter the house, soul, or i will abandon the house i am your disciple, for all that i am stupid and twisted of mouth, so that i may learn one smile from your smiling lip.
fountain of learning, do you want me to a pupil?
what device shall i invent to stitch myself to you?
at least i may descry through the crack of the door the lightning of your cheek from that fire of the portico i will kindle hundred candles.
one instant you rob me of my load on the way, saying, i am the tithe collector one instant you go before me, meaning, ian the guide.
now you drive me to sin, now towards repentance twist my head and my tail, for i am a compressed hamza.
in sin and in penitence, like a fish on the pan, this side and that side i am burning on the pan.
on your pan i am turning this way and that in the darkness of night, with you i am brighter than day.
enough, i am all diversified in craft and thought for one instant like turquoise, for one instant like piraeus once again, once again i have escaped from my chains, have burst out of these bonds and this trap which seizes the infirm heaven, the bent old man full of wizardry and deceit by virtue of your youthful fortune i have escaped from this old man.
night and day i ran, i broke away from night and day ask of this sphere how like an arrow i sped.
why should i fear sorrow?
for i am the comrade of death.
why should i fear the general?
for i have escaped from the prince reason bore me down with anxiety for forty years sixteenths made me quarry, and i have escaped from devising.
all creatures have been made deaf or blind by predestination have escaped from the attack and retreat of predestination, and from predestination.
outwardly skin, inwardly stone, the fruit is a prisoner like fig, i have escaped from that skin and that stone.
delay causes mischief, and haste is of the devil my heart has escaped from haste, and i have escaped from delay.
in the first place blood was the food, in the end blood became milk when the teeth of reason sprouted, i escaped from that milki ran after bread, a loaf or two, by imposture the all gave me food, so that i escaped from imposture.
be silent, be silent, speak no more in detail i will speak of the interpretation, i have escaped from the stench of garlic.
like a mirror my soul displays secrets i am able not to speak, but i am unable not to know.
i have become a fugitive from the body, fearful as to the spirit i swear i know not i belong neither to this nor to that seeker, to catch a scent is the condition of dying look not upon me as ing, for i am not so.
look not on my crookedness, but behold this straight wordmy talk is an arrow, and i am as a bow.
this gourd like head on top of me, and this dervish habit of my body whom am i like, whom am i like in this market of the world?
then this gourd on my head, full of liquor i keep it upside down, yet i let not a drop trickle from it.
and even if i do let trickle, do you behold the power of the all, that in exchangeforthat drop i gather pearls from the sea.
my eyes like a cloud gather pearls from that sea this cloud of my spirit rises to the heaven of fidelity.
i rain in the presence of the stag, that lilies may grow in the form of my tongue.
said, my spirit is moving in the track of love, but because of your weariness my tongue is tied.
like an arrow i am flying towards your joyous company beloved, do not break my bow with cruelties.
like a tent i remain standing before you on one lot beloved, bring me into your tabernacle and seat me there.
lay that flagon's lip on my dry lip, then hear the veritable magic from my mouth hear the story of babylon and the tale of avail, forby way of meditation i travel the world.
excuse me if my turbulence goes beyond bounds, since love grants me security not for a single moment.
when you are weary, i am weary of your weariness when you wash your hands of me, i bite my fingers.
on the night when you dispense light like the moon until daybreak, in your wake i am running like a star on the day when you put up your head from the east like the sun, like the sun i am altogether spirit.
but on the day when like the spirit you are hidden from my eyes, like the heart of a bird i am fluttering with anxiety.
on the day when your light shines through my window, inky apartment i dance for joy like a more.
rational soul, be silent and depart into hiding like the thought, so that he who thinks of causes only may not find my track i am the slave who set the master tree, i am the one who taught the teacher.
i am that soul which was born of the world yesterday, and yet erected the ancient world.
i am the wax whose claim is this, that it was i who made steel steel i have painted with surmise many a sightless one, i have taught many a one without intelligence.
i am the black cloud in the night of grief who gladdened the day of festival.
i am the amazing earth who out of the fire of love filled wit hair the brain of the sky.
in joy that king slept not last night, because i the slave remembered him.
it is not to blame, since you intoxicated me, if i am scandalous and wrought injustice.
silence, for the mirror is rusting over when i blew upon it, it protested against me.
i made a journey, i ran to every city, no man i saw with your grace and beauty.
i returned from banishment and exile, once more i attained this felicity.
since i became far from the garden of your countenance, saw no rose, i plucked not one fruit.
since by bad luck i fell far from you, i have endured trouble from every unlucky one.
what shall i say?
i was utterly dead without you the all has created me anew once more.
amazing.
would you say that i have beheld your face?
would you say that i have heard your voice?
suffer me to kiss your hand and loot give festively, for today's festival.
joseph of egypt, i have brought you as a present such aright mirror.
how close your soul is to my soul.
for whatever thing you are thinking, i know.
i have a token even closer than this come close, and behold my token.
in dervish guise you come into the midst do not jest and say, i am in the midst.
i am like the column midst your house i am like a waterspout hanging down from your roof.
i am a sharer of your secrets on the day of mustering and resurrection, i am not a passing host like worldly friends.
in your banquet i go round like the wine, in time of masturbate i go before you like a lance.
if like lightning i make a trade of dying, like the lightning of your beauty i am without a tongue.
always i am joyful it makes no difference whether i yield my soul, or seize a soul.
if i give you my soul, it will be good trade, forin exchangefora soul you will give me a hundred worlds.
in this house thousands and more are dead there you are seated saying, behold my household.
a handful of dust says, i was once a tree another says, ian a bone.
you become bewildered then suddenly love comes saying, come to me, fori am the one eternally ae.
embrace my smooth breast to your breast, so that i maydeer you this very instant from yourself.
silence, strauss, speak no more of shin my mouth is burning with sweetness.
out of all the world i choose you alone do you deem it right for me to sit sorrowful?
my heart is like a pen in your hand through you it is, whether i am glad or grieve.
what shall i be other than what you wish?
what shall i see except what you show?
now you cause thorns to grow from me, now roses now smell roses, now i pluck thorns.
since you keep me so, i am so since you wish me so, ian so.
in that vat where you dispense dye to the heart, what should i be?
what my love and hate?
you were the first, and you will be the last do you make my last better than my first.
when you are hidden, i am of the infidels when you appear, i am of the faithful.
what do i possess other than the thing you have given?
what are you searching for in my pocket and sleeve?
come, for today we are the quarry of the king, we have no need for self and the world.
come, for today like moses son of ‘iran with manlinesswe will lift up dust from the sea.
all night we were fallen like a staff now that day has come we are restless as serpents.
having matriculated round our own breast, we bring out of the soul's pocket the white hand.
by that power whereby a serpent became a staff, every nightie are like a staff, daily a serpent for arrogant pharaoh we are serpents, for moses we are staves and obedient.
by zeal we shed the blood of nimrods do not regard the fact that we are slender as gnats.
we will exceed over lions and elephants, though in the hand of that lion we are helpless.
though like camels we are crooked of nature, like camels we travel smoothly towards the kaaba we will not attach our hearts to a two days'fortune, for wear successful in everlasting fortune.
like sun and moon we are near and far, like love and the heart we are hidden and patent.
for the sake of blood lapping, blood devouring love we areas blood in the platter of love's dogs.
as fish in the time of silence we are silent, in the time of speech we are the dustless moon.
i was intent on seeking a stratagem, that that macedonian might set his face on mine.
i said, i have one word in my mind come forward, that may speak it in your ear.
last night, dear soul, i saw a dream, and i desire to seek from you its interpretation.
i have none intimate with this dream but you do you listen, my king whose habit is to conceal.
fie moved his head and laughed that head which knows me hair by hair as if to say, you are hatching a trick to play on me, for i am the mirror of every hue and scent.
i am as a plaything in his hands, for i am the picture drawn by his gold stitching needle.
not lifeless shall be the image which he has made i am his least image, i am therefore in ecstasy.
i departed, ridding the world of the trouble of my presence, i escaped from anguish with my lifei bade farewell to my companions, i transported my soul to the sinless world.
i went forth from this house of six doors, gaily i carried my baggage to gracelessness when i beheld the master of the hunt of the unseen i flew like an arrow, carrying my bow when the polo stick of death approached me, i carried off from the midst the ball of felicity.
a marvelous moon shone through my window i went to the roof, carrying a ladder.
the roof of heaven which is the assembly place of souls, was fairer than i had ever imagined.
since my rose branch had become withered, i carried it back again to the garden and rose bower as there was no purchaser for my coin, i carried it quickly to the source of the source of the mind from these counterfeiters i carried also as a present a filing of the soul to the goldsmith.
in the unseen the boundless world i saw to that bound transported my tent.
do not weep for me, for i am happy because of this journey, inasmuch as i have traveled the road to the realm of paradise.
write this saying upon my tomb, that i have come safely out of trial and tribulation.
sleep sweetly, body, in this earth, for i have carried your message up to heaven.
bind up my chin, for i have carried all lamentations to the creator of lamentation speak no more the grief of your heart, fori have carried your heart to the presence of him who knows all secrets.
we are dancing like motes, we obey the command of your sun every dawn out of love's east like the sun we rise.
we thresh about in dry and wet, we become not dry, nor turn wet.
we have heard brasses making much lament, light, shine, that we may become gold.
for the sake of their need and anguish we rise to the sphere sand the stars.
we come as amber for a necklace from the oversubscribed we have beaten our dervish frock, to emerge from that to gown of shushtar we are the drainers of pure wine on the path of poverty, wear intoxicated with the red wine.
if they impose on us the world's poison, we come as sugar out of our inward parts.
on the day when brave men flee, we come as san jar in the thick of the bated we make wine of the foreman's blood, then we drain it and come like daggers.
we are the ring of drunken lovers, every day we come as ring on the door.
he wrote the sign manual of security for us how should welcome to the rattle of mere death?
in the supernal kingdom and gracelessness we come on the steed of the green sphere.
we went into hiding from the world of the flesh, we come more manifest in the world of love.
in the body the soul has become pure we become boundlessness come yet purer soul of the soul we come shoulder to shoulder in the house of eternity.
last night i vowed anew, i swore an oath by your life, that i would never remove my eyes from your lace if you smite with the sword, i will not turn from you.
i will not seek the cure from any other, because my pain is of separation from you.
if you should cast me into the fire, i am no true man if utter a sigh.
i rose from your path like dust now i return to the dust of your path.
if i do not express in speech your elegance, i have your love within my breast.
if i smell a rose without your love, forthwith burn me like thorn if i am silent as a fish, yet i am restless as the waves and the sea.
you who have set a seal on my lips, draw my toggle towards you.
what is your design?
what should i know?
i only know that i'm in this train.
i chew the cud of grief for you like a camel, like a raging camel i bring up foam.
though i keep hidden and do not speak, in the presence of love i am manifest.
i am like a seed under the soil, i am waiting upon the signal of spring, that without my own breath i may breathe sweetly, that without my own head i may scratch a head.
on the day when you pass over my grave, bring to mind this terror and confusion of minefill full of light that bottom of the tomb, eye and lamp of my light, that in the tomb this patient body of mine may prostrate to you in gratitude.
harvest of roses, pass me not in haste, make me happy a moment with that perfumeand when you pass by, do not suppose that i am far from your window and portico.
if the stones of the tomb have blocked my way, i am unvarying on the path of fantasy.
though i should have a hundred winding sheets of satin, ian naked without the vestment of your form.
i will emerge into the hall of your palace, in breaking a hole in the wall perchance i am like an ant.
i am your ant, you are solomon not for one moment leave me without your presence.
i have fallen silent do you speak the rest, for i am shunning henceforth my own speaking and disheartening, do you invite me, since your invitation is my blast of the trumpet.
we are ing by the light of majesty, we are strangers and exceeding familiar.
the carnal soul is like a, but in our secret heart we are superior to joseph of egypt.
the moon repents of his conceit when we display to him outface the feathers and pinions of the sun consume when we open our feathers and pinions.
this form of man is a veil we are the fibula of all prostrations.
regard that breath, do not see the adam in us, that we may transport your soul with grace.
iblis looked with a separate regard, he supposed that we are apart from the all himself is the pretext it is we who are in the beauty of grace, we.
for the sake of a veil say to men, he is the noble king and we are beggars.
oi what have we to do with kingship and beggary?
we are happy because we are worthy of the king.
we are effaced in the beauty of bossin that efface men neither he is, nor are weston world of water and clay, since i knew you i have known myriad tribulations and pains.
you are the pasturage of asses, not the abode of jesus why have i known this pasturage of asses?
you first spread the table, then gave me sweet water you bound me hand and foot, so that i knew hand and foot.
why should you not bind hand and foot, seeing the all called you a cradle?
like a tree i lift up my hands from the earth in desire for that one from whom i knew desire.
cluster, how is it that in childhood you become like perfect old man?
answer came, i escaped from youthful passion when i knew the zephyr.
the branch goes upwards because it came from above i hasten towards my origin, because i know my origin.
how long shall i speak of below and above?
gracelessness is my origin, i am not of place, for i know whence place comes no, be silent, depart into nonexistence, become naughty in nonexistence behold, how i know things from nothings.
since my sun and star arose higher than form, i am happier to go from realities into realities.
i have become lost in realities so it is sweeter i will not return towards form, i will not look upon the two worlds.
i am melting in meanings till i become of one color with him, formeaning is as water and i am as sugar.
no man's heart wearies of the life of his own soul naturally in view of this reality i will not recall form.
i stroll from garden to garden with the spiritual ones, graceful as a red rose and fresh as a sharpener am am as a wave to the body's boat, i break it plank by plank smash myself when i am anchor to myself.
and if out of hardness of heart i am slack in my affairs, swift out of the sea surge my flames of fire.
i am laughing happily as gold midst his fire, because if emerge from the fire i congeal as gold.
from an incantation like a snake i have put down my head on his line brother, what will fall on my head from his line?
i was weary of form, i came towards attributes each attribute said, enter here, for i am the green sea.
theif, i have a realm like alexander consequently out of grace i am army leader towards the armies of meaning give me that last night's wine, fori am intoxicated by your potion hattie of the world, give into my hand a huge cup saki of true men, turn not your face from meforone moment do not break my heart, else i shall break cup and glass a cup was in my hand, i flung it down and broke it wounded the soles of a hundred naked feet with that glass.
you are a whippersnapper because your liquor is from glass wine is not of must, so why should i worship glass?
drink, my heart, the spiritual wine, and sleep secure and free of care for i have beheaded anguish, i have escaped from sorrow and anguish.
my heart has gone up, my body has gone down where am i, the helpless one?
i am neither above nor below.
what a fine hanging apple am i, who cannot endure without your stone.
how should i endure without baa if i am drunk with alcestis?
ask of me, what a treasure this love is and what it holds ask concerning me also of him, that he may say who i am.
why do you hang about the riverbank?
leap from the river, if you are a true man leap from the river and seek for me, for have leaped from the riverboat if you remain, we remain, and if you go, we depart when you ate i ate, when you sat i sat.
i am that drunken drummer who went drunk into the arena, i tied my drum like a flag to the top of my lance.
what a happy and unselfish king you are.
silent as a fish since i have escaped from being, why do you draw me back toeing?
i am that lover of your love who have no occupation but this, fori have nothing but disapproval for him who is not a lover.
i seek no heart but yours, i hurry only towards you i do not smell the roses of every garden, i have no heedforevery thorn.
in you i have put my faith, my heart has become muscleman my heart said to you, darling, i have no beloved like you since you are my eye and tongue, i do not see two, i do not recite two, i acknowledge none but the one darling that is you.
since i drink of your honey, why should i sell vinegar?
why should i laborformy daily bread?
it is not the case that i donor possess an ample allowance.
i eat to my fill at this table of the sultan's sugar cakes, not as guest of satan i have no appetite for lunch.
i will not grieve, i will not grieve, i will not boast of asceticism if you think i have not abundant gold, behold my gold pale cheeks.
the strauss of the heart grieves only for shin with what heart should i grieve?
after all, i have not a grieved heart.
i would explain for all, both fearful and secure alike but have not the heart to speak of inward words, oi you who are unbranded by madness, tell me now, how are you?
for i have no further traces of how and after what manner.
since i have no care for the moon of the dormitory of the commander if i am hand clapping, i belong not to the clappers i am neither of this nor of that, i am of that mighty city.
i am not for fluting and gambling, i am not for wine and liquor, i am neither heaven nor crop sickness, i am neither like this nor like that.
if i am drunk and dissolute, i am not drunk with wine like you i am not of earth nor of water, i am not of the people of time the mind of the son of adam what knowledge has it of this utterance?
for i am hidden by two hundred veils from the world entire.
hear not these words as from me, nor from this clear thought, for i neither received nor seize this outward and inward.
though your face is beautiful, the cage of your soul is of wood run away from me or you will burn, for my tongue is aflame.
i am not of scent nor color, i am not of fame or shame beware of my poplar arrow, for the all is my bow.
i seize not raw wine, nor borrow from anyone, i seize neither breath nor snare, my youthful fortune.
i am as the rose bower of paradise, i am the joy garden of the world, for my spirit is flowing through the spirits of all men.
the sugared of your phantom brings rose sugar to me in the garden of realities i scatter the rose of a hundred petals.
when i enter the rose showering garden of union with you, make me sit down, for i am a target for your brand.
love, what a mate you are, how strange, how marvelous.
when you seized my mouth, my expression went inwards.
when my soul reaches, to come to, i will bring to an end all the secrets of speech.
there is a passion in my head that i have no inclination for mankind, this passion makes me so that i am unaware of myself.
the king of love bestows every moment two thousand kingdoms i desire nothing from him save his beauty.
the girdle and cap of his love are enough for me in both worlds what matter if my cap falls?
what care if i have no girdle?
one morning his love transported my wounded heart to palace where i transcended day and night, and have no knowledge of dawn.
a journey befell my soul to the kingdom of realities, such that the sky and the moon say, i have no such journey.
through separation if my soul scatters pearls from my eyes, think not that i have not a heart full of pearls from him.
what sugar seller have i to sell sugar to me.
never on anyway he said, go, fori have no sugar.
i would have shown a token of his beauty, but the two worlds would be confounded i have no inclination for scaramouche and riot.
, i have sworn that after bossdin comes i will ingratitude lay down this head, for i have nothing but a head.
the ravings which my enemy uttered i heard within my heart the secret thoughts he harbored against me i also perceived.
his dog bit my foot, he showed me much injustice i do not bite him like a dog, i have bitten my own lip.
since i have penetrated into the secrets of individuals linemen of the all, why should i take glory in having penetrated his secret?
i reproach myself that through my doubting it so happened that purposely i drew a scorpion towards my own foot.
like iblis who saw nothing of adam except his fire, by the all was invisible to this insignificant iblis.
convey to my friends why i am afflicted in mind when the snake bit my thigh i started away from the black rope.
the blessed silent ones, their lips and eyes closed by a way unknown to any man, i ran into their thoughts mo since there is a secret and perfect way from heart to heart, gathered gold and silver from the treasuries of hearts.
into the thought that was like a brazen stove i flung the dead dog out of the thought that was like a rose bower plucked roses and jasmine.
if i have hinted at the evil and good of my friends, i have spun that like a weaver as the choicest veil.
when my heart rushed suddenly to a heart mighty and aware, out of awe for his heart i fluttered like the heart.
as you are happy with your own state, how did you fall in with me?
attend to your own business, for i am neither sharkskin disciple.
as far as you are concerned, brother, i am neither copper nor red gold drive me from your door, for i am neither lock nor key take it as if i had not ever spoken these words if you had been in my mind, by the all i would not have quarreled.
i closed my eyes to creation when i beheld his beauty, i became intoxicated with his beauty and bestowed my soul.
for the sake of solomon's seal i became wax in all my body, and in order to become illumined i rubbed my wax.
i saw his opinion and cast away my own twisted opinion became his reed pipe and likewise lamented on his lip.
he was in my hand, and blindly i groped for him with my hand i was in his hand, and yet i inquired of those who were misinformed i must have been either a simpleton or drunk or mad that fearfully i was stealing from my own gold.
like a thief i crept through a crack in the wall into my own vine, like a thief i gathered jasmine from my own garden.
enough, do not twist my secret upon your fingertips, for have twisted off out of your twisted fist.
theif, from whom comes the light of moon and stars though i am grieving with sorrow for him, i am like the crescent of the festival.
reason says, i will beguile him with the tongue love says, be silent.
i will beguile him with the soul.
the soul says to the heart, go, do not laugh at me and yourself what is there that is not his, that i may beguile him thereby?
he is not sorrowful and anxious and seeking that may beguile him with wine and a heavy measure.
the arrow of his glance needs not a bow that i should beguile the shaft of his gaze with a bow.
he is not prisoner of the world, fettered to this world of earth, that i should beguile him with gold and the kingdom of the world.
he is an angel, though in form he is a man he is not lustful that i should beguile him with women.
angels start away from the house wherein this form is, show should i beguile him with such a form and likeness?
he does not take a flock of horses, since he flies on wings his food is light, so how should i beguile him with bread?
he is not a merchant and trafficker in the market of the world that i should beguile him with enchantment of gain and loss.
he is not veiled that i should make myself out sick and utter sighs, to beguile him with lamentation.
i will bind my head and bow my head, for i have got out of hand i will not beguile his compassion with sickness or fluttering hair by hair he sees my crookedness and feigning what's hidden from him that i should beguile him with anything hidden he is not a seeker of fame, a prince addicted to poets, that i should beguile him with verses and lyrics and flowing poetry the glory of the unseen form is too great for me to beguile it with blessing or paradise.
theif, who is his chosen and beloved perchance will beguile him with this same pole of the age.
my mother was fortune, my father generosity and bounty ian joy, son of joy, son of joy, son of joy.
behold, the marquis of glee has attained felicity this city and plain are filled with soldiers and drums and flags.
if i encounter a, he becomes a moon face josef if i go down into a well, it converts into a garden cofferdam he whose heart is as iron and stone out of miserliness is now changed before me into a harem of the age in generosity and bounty dust becomes gold and pure silver in my hand how then should the temptation of gold and silver waylay me?
i have an idol such that, were his sweet scent scattered abroad, even an idol of stone would receive life through joy.
sorrow has died for joy in him of may the all bind your consolation how should not such a sword strike the neck of sorrow?
by tyranny he seizes the soul of whom he desires justices are slaves of such injustice and tyranny.
what is that mole on that face?
should it manifest itself, out of desire for it forthwith maternal aunt would be estranged from paternal uncle.
i said, if i am done and send my story, will you finish it and expound it?
he answered, yes.
when i am asleep and crumbling in the tomb, should you come to visit me, i will come forth with speed.
you areforme the blast of the trumpet and the resurrection, so what shall i do?
dead or ing, wherever you are, there am i. without your lip i am a frozen and silent reed what melodies i play the moment you breathe on my reed.
your wretched reed has become accustomed to your sugar lip remember wretched me, for i am seeking you.
when i do not find the moon of your countenance, i windup my head veil myself in mourning when i do not find your sweet lip, i gnaw my own hand.
the time has come for us to become madmen in your chain, to burst our bonds and become estranged from all to yield up our souls, no more to bear the disgrace of such soul, to set fire to our house, and run like fire to the tavern.
until we ferment, we shall not escape from this vat of the world how then shall we become intimate with the lip of that flagon and bowl?
listen to true words from a madman do not suppose that we become true men until we die.
it is necessary that we should become more introverted than the tip of a comb in the top of the twisted trees of felicity spread our wings and pinions like a tree in the orchard, if likes seed we are to be scattered on this road of annihilation.
though we are of stone, we shall become like wax for your seal though we be candles, we shall become a moth in the track of your light.
though we are kings, we shall travel straight as rooks for your sake, that we may become blessed through your queen on this chessboard.
in the face of the mirror of love we must not breathe a word of ourselves we must become intimate with your treasure whence are changed to waste.
like the tale of the heart we must be without head or ending, that we may become dwellers in the heart of lovers like stale if he acts the seeker, we shall attain to being sought if heats the key, we shall become all the wards of the lock.
if mustang.
does not make his way and couch in our hearts, it is meet that we should lament and become like the wailing column.
no, be silent for one must observe silence towards the watchman when we go towards the pavilion by night.
last night my soul cried, exalted sphere of heaven, you hang indeed inverted, with flames in your belly.
without sin and crime, eternally revolving, upon your bodkin its complaining is the deep indigo of mourning, now happy, now unhappy, like abraham in the fire at once king and beggar like brahmani adamin form you are terrifying, yet your state is full of anguish you turn round like a millstone and writhe like a snake.
heaven the blessed replied, how should i not fear that one who makes the paradise of the world as hell?
in his hand earth is as wax, he makes it izanagi and the master, remakes it falcon and owl, he makes it sugar and poison.
he is hidden, friend, and has set us forth thus patent so that he may become concealed.
how should the ocean of the world be concealed under straws?
the straws have been set dancing, the waves tumbling up and down your body is like the land floating on the waters of the soul your soul is veiled in the body alike in wedding feast or sorrow, oi in the veil you are a new bride, hot tempered and obstinate he is railing seedy at the good and the bad of the world.
through him the earth is a green meadow, the heavens uninteresting on every side through him a fortunate one pardoned and preserved.
reason a seeker of certainty through him, patience a seeker of help through him, love seeing the unseen through him, earth taking the form of adam through him.
air seeking and searching, water hand washing, we messiah like speaking, earth mary like silent.
behold the sea with its billows circling round the earthy ship behold kaaba and meccas at the bottom of this well zamenhof.
the king says, be silent, do not cast yourself into the well, foryou do not know how to make a bucket and a rope out of my withered stumps.
every day i bear a burden, and i bear this calamity for a purpose i bear the discomfort of cold and december's snow in hope of spring.
before the fastener of all who are lean, i drag this so emaciated body though they expel me from two hundred cities, i bear it for the sake of the love of a prince though my shop and house be laid waste, i bear it in fidelity to a tulip bed.
the all's love is a very strong fortress i carry my soul's baggage inside a fortress.
i bear the arrogance of every stout hearted stranger for the sake of a friend, of one long suffering for the sake of his ruby i dig out mountain and mine for the sake of that rose laden one i endure a thorn.
for the sake of those two intoxicating eyes of his, like the intoxicated i endure crop sickness for the sake of a quarry not to be contained in a snare, spread out the snare and decoy of the hunter.
he said, will you bear this sorrow till the resurrection?
yes, friend, i bear it, i bear it.
my breast is the cave and bossis the companion of the cave.
i bear ridicule for the sake of the companion of the cave.
if i weep, if i come with excuses, my beloved puts cotton wool in his ears.
every cruelty which he commits becomes him, every cruelty which he commits i endure.
if he accounts me nonexistent, i account his tyranny generosity.
the cure of the ache of my heart is the ache for him how shall i not surrender my heart to his ache?
only then are glory and respect mine, when his glorious love renders me contemptible.
only then does the vine of my body become wine, when praiseworthiness stamps on me and spurns me underfoot.
i yield my soul like grapes under the trampling, that my secret heart may make merry, though the grapes weep only blood, for i am vexed with this cruelty and tyranny.
i he who pounds upon me puts cotton wool in his ears saying, i do not press unwittingly.
if you disbelieve, you are excusable, but i am the mutability the expert in this affair.
when you burst under the labor of my feet, then you will render much thanks to me.
i have got out of my own control, i have fallen into unconsciousness in my utter unconsciousness how joyful i am with myself.
the darling sewed up my eyes so that i might not see other than him, so that suddenly i opened my eyes on his face.
my soul fought with me saying, do not pain me i said, take your divorce.
she said, grant it i granted it.
when my mother saw on my cheek the brand of your love she cut my umbilical cord on that, the moment i was born.
if i travel to heaven and read the tablet of the unseen, you who are my soul's salvation, without you how i am ruined.
when you cast aside the veil the dead became ae the light of your face reminded me of the covenant of alas when i became lost, soul, through love of the king of therapist, hidden from self and creatures, i am as if peppercorn myself.
i said to the of bossdin, body, what are you?
body said, earth soul said, i am distraught like the wind.
without you, darling, in both worlds i have seen no joy many wonders i have seen, a wonder like you i have not seen.
they said, the blaze of fire will be the infidel's portionnone have i seen exempted of your fire save the pardoner i have oft laid the ear of my soul at the window of the heart i have heard much discourse, but i have seen no lips.
suddenly you scattered compassion on your servant i saw no cause for that save your infinite tenderness.
chosen saki, apple of my eyes, the like of you never appeared in persia, in arabia i never saw.
be lavish with that wine whose juice never came to festive gathering and that glass the equal of which i saw not in aleppo.
pour wine in such abundance that i set out a foot from myself, for in self hood and existence i have seen only weariness.
you who are sun and moon, you who are honey and sugar, you who are mother and father, no lineage have i seen but you.
infinite love, divine manifestation, you are both stay and refuge an epithet equal to you i have not heard.
we are iron filings and your love is the magnet you are the source of all questing, in your quest none i have seen.
be silent, brother, dismiss learning and culture till you recited culture, no culture in you i scrimshaw qiqihar, source of the source of souls, without the base of your being, no date have i ever known.
power, what a beloved is mine.
i have a sweet quarry i possess in my breast a hundred meadows from his reed.
when in anger the messenger comes and repairs towards me, he says, whither are you fleeing?
i have business with you.
last night i asked the new moon concerning my moon.
the moon said, i am running in his wake, my foot is in his dust.
when the sun arose i said, how yellow of face you are.
the sun said, out of shame for his countenance i have a face of gold.
water, you are prostrate, you are running on your headland face.
water said, because of his incantation i move like snake noble fire, why do you write so?
fire said, because of the lightning of his face my heart is restless.
wind messenger of the world, why are you light of heart?
wind said, my heart would burn if the choice were mine.
earth, what are you meditating, silent and watchful?
earth said, within me i have a garden and spring.
pass over these elements, the all is our scoured my head is aching, in my hand i hold wine.
if you have barred sleep to us, the way of intoxication is open since i have one to assist, he offers wine in both hands.
be silent, that without this tongue the heart may speak when i hear the speech of the heart, i feel ashamed of this speech weary not of us, for we are very beautiful it is out of very jealousy and proper pride that we entered the veil.
on the day when we cast off the body's veil from the soul, you will see that we are the envy and the despair of the moon and the polestars.
wash your face and become clean for beholding us, else remain afar, for we are beloveds of ourselves.
we are not that beauty who tomorrow will become a crone till eternity we are young and heart comforting and fair of stature if that veil has become worn out, the beauty has not grown old the life of the veil is transient, and we are boundless life.
when iblis saw the veil of adam, he refused adam called to him, you are the rejected one, not i. the rest of the angels fell down prostrate, saying as they bowed themselves, we have encountered a beauty beneath the veil is an idol who by his qualities robbed us of reason, and we, prostrate, fell.
if our reason does not know the forms of the foul old men from those of the beauties, we are apostates from love, oi what place is there for a beauty?
for he is the lion of the all.
like a child we prattled, for we are children of the alphabet.
children are beguiled with nuts and raisins, else, how are we meet for nuts and sesame grains?
when an old woman is hidden in helmet and chain mail, she says, i am the illustrious rust am of the battle ranks.
by her boast all know that she is a woman how should remake a mistake, seeing that we are in the light of ahmad?
the believer is discriminating so said the prophet now close your mouth, for we are guided rightly without speech.
hear the rest from shames the pride we did not take the end of the story from that king.
rise, lovers, that we may go towards heaven we have seen this world, so let us go to that world.
no, no, for though these two gardens are beautiful and fair, let us pass beyond these two, and go to that gardener.
let us go prostrating to the sea like a torrent, then let us go foaming upon the face of the sea.
let us journey from this street of mourning to the wedding feast, let us go from this saffron face to the face of the judas tree blossom trembling like a leaf and twig from fear of falling, our hearts are throbbing let us go to the abode of security.
there is no escape from pain, since we are in exile, and therein no escape from dust, seeing that we are going to a dustbowl.
like parrots green of wing and with fine pinions, let us become sugar gatherers and go to the sugar bed.
these forms are signs of the sinless fashioner hidden from the evil eye, come, let us go to the sinless.
it is a road full of tribulation, but love is the guide, giving us instruction how we should go there one through the shadow of the king's grace surely protects, yet it is better that on that road we go with the caravan.
we are like rain falling on a leaky roof let us spring from the leak and go by that waterspout.
we are crooked as a bow, for the string is in our own throat when we become straight, then we will go like an arrow from the bow.
we cower like mice in the house because of the cats if we are lion's whelps, let us go to that lion.
let us make our soul a mirror in passion for a joseph let us go before joseph's beauty with a present.
let us be silent, that the giver of speech may say this even ashe shall say, so let us go.
did i not say to you, go not there, fori am your friend in this mirage of annihilation i am the fountain of life?
even though in anger you depart a hundred thousand years from me, in the end you will come to me, fori am your goal.
did i not say to you, be not content with worldly forms, fori am the fashioner of the tabernacle of your contentment?
did i not say to you, i am the sea and you are a single fish not to dry land, lot i am your crystal sea?
did i not say to you, go not like birds to the snare come, fori am the power of flight and your wings and feet?
did i not say to you, they will waylay you and make you cold, for i am the fire and warmth and heat of your desire?
did i not say to you, they will implant in you ugly qualities so that you will forget that i am the source of purity to you?
did i not say to you, do not say from what direction the servant's affairs come into order?
i am the creator without directions if you are the lamp of the heart, know where the road is to the house and if you are the alllike of attribute, know that i amour master.
bring wine, for i am suffering crop sickness hangoverfrom the vintner the all has seized me, and i am thus held fast.
by love's soul, bring me a cup of wine that is the envy of the sun, fori care nothingforaught but love.
bring that which if i were to call it soul would be a shame, for the reason that i am pained in the head because of the soul.
bring that whose name is not contained in this mouth, through which the fissures of my speech split asunder.
bring that which, when it is not present, i am stupid and ignorant, but when i am with it, i am the king of the subdue and crafty ones.
bring that which, the moment it is void of my head, i become black and dark, you might say i am of the infidels.
bring that which deers out of this bring and do not bring bring quickly, and repel me not, saying, whence shall bring it?
bring, and deer the roof of the heavens through the long night from my abundant smoke and lamentations.
bring that which after my death, even out of my dust, will restore me to speech and thanksgiving even as ajar bring me wine, for i am guardian of wine like a goblet, for whatever has gone into my stomach i deer back completely ajar said, after my death would that my people might eyeopener to the ecstasy within me.
they would not regard my bones and blood in spirit i am amity king, even though in body i am vile.
what a ladder i, the carpenter, have chiseled.
my going has reached the roof of the seventh heaven.
i journeyed like the messiah, my ass remained below i do not grieve for my ass, nor am i ass like of ears.
do not like iblis see in adam only water and clay see that behind the clay are my hundred thousand rose bowers.
bossrose up from this flesh saying, i am the sun.
bring up my head from this mire.
err not, when i enter the mire once more, for i am at rest, and am ashamed of this veil.
every morning i will rise up, despite the blind for the sake of the blind i will not cease to rise and set.
what hidden sweetness there is in this emptiness of the belly.
man is surely like a lute, no more and no less for if, for instance, the belly of the lute becomes full, no lament high or low will arise from that full lute.
if your brain and belly are on fire through fasting, because of the fire every moment a lament will arise from your breast.
every moment you will burn a thousand veils by that fire you will mount a hundred steps with zeal and endeavor.
become empty of belly, and weep entreatingly like the reed pipe become empty of belly, and tell secrets with the reed pen.
if your belly is full at the time of concourse, it will bring satan in place of your reason, an idol in place of the kaaba.
when you keep the fast, good habits gather together before you like slaves and servants and retinue.
keep the fast, for that is solomon's ring give not the ring to the div, destroy not your kingdom.
even if your kingdom has gone from your hand and your army has fled, your army will rise up, pennants flying above them the table arrived from heaven to the tents of the fast, by the intervention of the prayers of jesus, son of mary.
in the fast, be expectant of the table of bounty, forthe table of bounty is better than the broth of cabbages.
i have a fire for you in my mouth, but i have a hundred season my tongue.
the flames which i have in my heart would make one mouthful of both worlds.
though the entire world should pass away, without the world i possess the kingdom of a hundred worlds.
caravans which are loaded with sugar i have in motion for the egypt of nonexistence.
the drunkenness of love makes me unaware whether i have profit or loss therefrom.
the body's eye was scattering pearls because of love, till now i have a pearl scattering soul.
i am not housebound, for like jesus i have a home in the fourth heaven.
thanks be to him who gives soul to the body if the soul should depart, yet i have the soul of the soul.
seek from me that which bosshas bestowed, for have the same.
by the the all who was in eternity ing and knowing and omnipotent, everlasting, his light lit the candles of love so that a hundred thousand secrets became known.
by one decree of him the world was filled lover and loved, ruler and ruled.
in the talismans of bossthe treasure of his marvels became concealed.
for from the moment that you journeyed forth, we became separated from sweetness like waxall the night we are burning like candles, paired to his flame and deprived of honey.
in separation from his beauty my body is a waste, and the soul in it is like an owl.
turn those reins in this direction, twist the trunk of the elephant of joy.
without your presence concert is not lawful music has been stoned like satan.
without you not one ode has been uttered, until that gracious vision of yours arrived and was understood then out of the joy of hearing your letter five or six odes were composed.
may our eventide through you be radiant dawn, you in whom syria and armenia and rum glory.
heart pure of breath and firm of foot, you came in order toward the best of communities.
only at the direction of the heart you set your head like pane on the page of eternal love.
in joy at your air and your justice we are dancing like pennant master, whither are you going, dancing?
towards liberation and the place of the plain of nonexistence.
master, say, which nonexistence in this?
the ear of eternity knows the letter of eternity.
love is a stranger, and his tongue is strange, like that arab stranger in persia.
rise up, for i have brought you a tale give ear to your servant neither more nor less give ear to this strange speech the tale is strange, and the speaker too.
from the face of that joseph the bottom of the well became bright and happy as the garden of irmathat prison became a palace with orchards and meadows, paradise, and a royal hall and vestibule of sanctity.
as when you fling a clod into the water, the water that very moment parts openlike a night of cloud, when the sun of dawn suddenly put sup its head from the well of grief like the wine which the bedouin drank and said, the all bless its jar and praise the all out of the joy of this imprisonment in humiliation and loss he joseph looks upon the high exalted heaven.
reason be not envious of my mouth the all has borne witness and counted the blessings.
through the tree drinks hidden water, there is clearly seen obits branches what it has concealed.
whatever the earth has stolen from heaven, it yields up ominously in the season of spring.
whether you have stolen a bead or a jewel, whether you have hoisted a flag or a pen, night has departed, and lo, your day has arrived the sleeper shall see that which he has dreamed of.
stealthily as the soul, you are going in the midst of my soulo luster of my garden, you are my gracefully moving cypress.
when you go, go not without me soul of my soul, go not without my body, and depart not out of my sight, my blazing torch i tear up the seven heavens and pass beyond the seven seas, when lovingly you gaze into my giddy soul.
since you came into my bosom, infidelity and faith are my servitors, you whose vision is my religion, whose face is my faith you have made me headless and footless, you have madame sleepless and footless enter drunken and laughing, joseph of through your grace i have become soul like and have become hidden from myself, you whose being has become hidden in my hidden being.
the rose rends its garment because of you, you with whom the narcissus'eye is intoxicated, of whom the branches are pregnant, you my infinite garden.
one moment you brand me, the next you draw me into the garden you draw me before the lamp so that my eyes may reopenedsoul before all souls, mine before all mines, moment before all moments, my very own, my very own.
our resting place is not earth though the body crumbles, it matters not.
my thought is not the skies, you, union with whom is my heaven.
the grave of mariners is the sea forevermore in the water of life where is death, you, my sea, my ocean?
of you whose scent is in my sight, whose sign is my fellow traveler, in the hope of my emperor color and scent have become distraught with me.
my soul, since like a mote in the air it has become separated from all heaviness, why should it be without you, origin of my four elements?
my king salas aldrin, you who know my way and see byway, you who are free of concern with my little dignity, loftier than my potentiality.
lovers, lovers, it is time to migrate from the world the drum of departure is reaching my spirit's ear from heaven.
see, the driver has arisen, the camel train is arrayed, he has begged us for quittance caravans, why are you asleep?
these sounds ahead and behind are the sounds of departure and the camel bells every moment a soul and a breath is setting off into gracelessness from these inverted candles, from these indigo veils, the reissues a wondrous people that the things unseen may become visible if heavy slumber fell upon you from this revolving sphere, alas for this light life.
beware of this heavy slumber.
heart, depart to the sweetheart friend, depart to the friend watchman, be wakeful a watchman should not sleep.
on every side are candles and torches, on every side noise and tumult, fortonight the pregnant world gives birth to the eternal world.
you were clay and became heart, you were ignorant and became intelligent he who has drawn you on so far will draw you beyond this world.
in drawing and drawing you his pains are delectable his flames are like water, do not frown thereon his business is to dwell in the soul, his business to break penitence vows by his abundant contrivance these notes are trembling at heart.
laughing stock, jumping out of your hole as if to cry, i am the power of the land, how long will you jump?
bend your neck, or they will bend you like a bow.
you sowed the seeds of deceit, you indulged in mockery, you deemed the all nonexistent now look, you cuckold.
ass, you were apter for straw a cauldron, you were better black you were better at the bottom of the well, you disgrace to house and household.
in me there is another from whom these angers leap if water scalds, it is through fire realize this.
i have no stone in my hand i have no quarrel with anyone ideal harshly with none, for i am as a rose bower.
my anger is therefore from that source, it is from the other world this side a world, that side a world i am seated on the threshold that man sits on the threshold who is mutely eloquent you have uttered this hint, that is enough say no more, draw back your tongue.
gardener, gardener, autumn has come, autumn has come see on branch and leaf the mark, see the mark of heart anguishgardener, attend, give ear, hearken to the lament of the trees on every side a hundred tongueless ones, a hundred tongueless ones bewailing.
never without cause are eyes weeping and lips parched noon without heart anguish is pale of cheek, pale of cheek.
in short, the raven of grief has entered the garden and is stamping his feet, demanding in mockery and oppression, where is the rose bower, where is the rose bower?
where is lily and eglantine?
where cypress and tulip and jasmine?
where the green garment ed ones of the meadow?
where the judas tree, where the judas tree?
where are the nurses of the fruits?
where the gratis honey and sugar?
every breast, every breast is dry of this flowing milk.
where is my sweet voiced nightingale?
where is my covering?
where is the peacock fair as an idol?
where are the parrots, where are the parrots?
like adam having eaten a grain fallen from his abode, their crown and fine robes have flown from this dazzling array, this dazzling array.
the rose bower constrained like adam, alike lamenting and expectant, since the power of bounty said to them, do not despair.
all the trees drawn up in ranks, black robed, plunged in mourning, leafless and sad and lamenting because of that trial.
crane and power of the village, at last return some answer have you gone into the depths or departed to heaven, to heaven?
they replied, enemy raven, that water shall return to the streams, the world will become full of scent even as paradise, even as paradise.
babbling raven, be patient three months more, till there arrive despite you the festival of the world, the festival of the world through the voice of our seraphic our lantern will become bright, we shall become ae from the death of that autumn festival, that autumn festival.
how long this denial and doubt?
behold the mine of joy and salt fly to heaven like a manikin without a ladder, without ladder.
the beast like autumn dies, you stamp upon its grave lo, the dawn of fortune is breaking, watchman, watchman.
dawn, fill the world with light, drive afar these hindus of the night, set free the time, recite a spell, recite a spell.
sweet working sun, return to aries, leave neither ice nor mud, scattering ambergris, scattering ambergris.
fill the rose bower with laughter, bring to life those dead ones, make shining the concourse ha, see what comes tonight the seeds are escaped from prison, we too from the corner of our houses the garden out of hidden places has brought hundred presents, a hundred presents.
the rose bower fills with beauties, fur coats are a drug on the market, the cycle of time, the cycle of time is giving birth and generating the crane is coming with his drooping wings over the palace, tall as the sky, babbling as if to say, yours is the kingdom, refuge in need, refuge in need.
the nightingale enters playing the lute, and that dove cooing, the other birds celebrate with song, youthful fortune, youthful fortune.
am pregnant with this resurrection i abandon the speech of the tongue the thoughts of my heart come not into the tongue, into the tongue.
silence.
listen, father, to the news from garden and birds flying arrow like they have come from gracelessness, from gracelessness enough now from the cry dish dismount i have remained far from my road enough from the cry quash set off i have missed my tent.
when will you deer me from this sushi when will you deer me from this dish, that i may arrive at your prosperity, at my moon and threshing floor?
though i am happy on the journey over plain and mountain and valley, in your love, sun of splendor, timely and untimely, yet where is the broad highway?
where is the sight and justice of the king?
especially for me, consumed in yearning for miking iowa long must i ask news of you from the zephyr?
how long must i seek your moon's image in the water of my well?
i have been burnt up a hundred ways like the garden, and likewise i have learned from spring in both states i am dumbfounded at the handiwork of my the all.
i become not satiated with you this is my only sin bent satiated with compassion for me, my refuge in both worlds.
satiated and weary of me have become his jar, and water carrier and water skin every moment my water seeking fish becomes thirstier.
break the pitcher, tear up the water skin, i am going towards the sea make clear my road.
how long will the earth become more from my teardrops?
how long will the sky be darkened by the grief and smoke of my sighs?
how long will my heart lament, alas, my heart, my ruined heart?
how long will my lips wail before the phantom of miking?
go towards the sea from which the wave of delight is coming behold how my house and hospice are drowned in its wave.
last night the water of life surged from the courtyard of my house my joseph yesterday fell like the moon into my well.
suddenly the torrent came and swept all my harvest awaysmoke mounted from my heart, my grain and chaff were consumed.
though my harvest is gone, i will not grieve why should grieve?
the halo of the light of my moon is more than enough for a hundred like me.
he entered my heart his image was of fire.
the fire rose overly head my cap was consumed.
he said, concerts impair dignity and respect.
you can have dignity, for his love is my luck and dignity.
i desire not intellect and wisdom his learning is enough form the light of his cheek at midnight is the blaze of my dawn.
the army of sorrow is mustering i will not grieve at his army because my horses, squadron on squadron, have seized even heaven after every ode my heart repents of discoursing the summons of my the all waylays my heart.
if any man asks you about the hawk man, show your face, saying, like this if any man speaks to you of the moon, get up onto the roof like this.
if any seeks a per, show him your countenance if any mentions musk, open your tresses like this.
if any says to you, how does cloud disclose the moon?
, loosen knot by knot the strings of your gown like this.
if one asks you how the messiah revived the dead, before him kiss me on the lips like this.
if any says to you, say, how is he who is slain of love?
exhibit to him my soul like this.
if any asks you compassionately about my stature, exhibit your own brow folded double like this.
the soul is separated from the body, and thereafter returns again show to those who disbelieve, enter the house like this.
whenever you hear a lover's lament, by the all's right, all that's our story like this.
i am the home of every angel, i am the black and blue beaten chest raise your eyes and look well at heaven like this.
to none but the zephyr have i told the secret of union with the beloved, so that the zephyr said in the joy of its secret heart like this.
despite him who says, how shall the servant attain the all?
put in the hand of every one a bright candle like this.
i said, how does the scent of joseph travel from city to city?
the scent of the all breathed from the world of hats like this said, how does the scent of a joseph give back sight?
your breeze irradiated my eyes like this.
from happy shadiness will be benevolent, and out of his grace in fidelity lift up his head like this.
power, would that i knew what is the desire of my beloved he has barred my road of escape, robbed me of my heart and my repose.
power, would that i knew whither he is dragging me, to what purpose he is dragging my toggle in every direction.
power, would that i knew why he is stouthearted, that loving king of mine, my long suffering darling.
power, would that i knew whether my sighing and my clamor, my power and my defense.
will reach my beloved at all.
power, would that i knew where this will end power, this my night of waiting is very long.
power, what is this ferment of mine, all this bashfulness of mine?
seeing that you are mine, you are at once my one and my thousand.
your love is always both silent and eloquent before the image of my eye, my sustenance and my fate.
now i call him quarry, now i call him spring, now i nickname him wine, now my crop sickness.
he is my unbelief and faith, my light beholding eye, that of mine and this of mine i cannot escape from hilario no more patience has remained for me, nor sleep, nor tears nor water power, how long will he raid all the four of mine?
where is the house of water and clay, compared with that of soul and heart?
power, my sole desire has become my hometown and habitation.
this heart is banished from the town, stuck in dark mire, lamenting, the all, where is my family and retinue?
power, if only i might reach my city and behold the compassion of my prince, and all that city of my friend.
gone then my hard road, the heavy load from my back suffering darling would come, carrying off my load.
my lion catching deer would drink to the full of my milk, he whose quarry i am would have become my quarry.
blackface night is then not the mate and consort of mayday stouthearted autumn follows not in the wake of springtime.
will you not be silent?
how long will you beat this drum?
alas, my veiled lip, that you have become veil rending.
suddenly today the enemy of my penitence and patience approached me midway on the road and cherished me like aching seizing a cup like any drunkard, in it a hundred blandishments and charms, he held before me the wine cup, saying, if you are a winegrower, take.
illumined as the face of moses, blessed as mount sinai, gleaming as the white hand, dilated with joy as the heart of ‘imran.
come take this clean tablet from this moses be not arrogant like pharaoh, contend not like haman.
i said to him, moses, what is in your hand?
he said, onetime this is a staff, one time a serpent.
from every separate atom a hundred various shapes appear for whatever is necessary for it is in the bag.
in my hand is the control of it, i change it into every formi make poison into medicine, i make the difficult easy.
now i strike it on the sea and bring up dust from the sea now i strike it on the rock and the fountain of life gushes out.
now i showed the limpid water of the nile to the enemy as blood, to the common folk i showed stone and earth as pear land corporal to the eye of the envious i am the to jacob himself, joseph to the ignorant before him who knows the all.
sweet breathed rosewater is death and asphyxiation to the black beetle sugary syrup is fatal to the bilious.
apparently all seekers are fellow travelers in reality they bareback to back.
one has made his lodging in the lowest depths, the other in the highest heaven.
like a child and an old man, though apparently fellow travelers, one is increasing every day, the other every moment on the decline?
what a cup of poison and candy is this.
what magic and jugglery.
this turn and this revolution keep you giddy.
the world is fixed and you see it as revolving when a man's head is spinning, he sees the house as spinning.
know as a station of fear that in which you are secure knows a station of security that in which you tremble.
since you are contrary and false you see everything contrariwise foolish man, when you consult a woman, oppose her.
that one is a woman whose road and fibula is color and scent truly woman is the evil commanding soul in human form.
the counsel of the spiritual is like the buzzing of bees from its lip it fills the floor of the house to the attic with its sweets bravo the incomprehensible comprehended, bravo the familiar stranger, bravo the sourness better than sweet, bravo the unbelief better than faith.
be silent, for the tongue has become a doorkeeper from measuring words when the heart speaks without words, it occupies the high throne like a king.
shine, theif, upon the houses of the heart, forthe sun of a secure seat is not like this spinning sun.
my world illuminating lamp is not shining so brightly strange is this the fault of the eye, or the light, or the window?
has perchance the end of the thread become lost?
what has become of that past state?
in that state the tip of the needle does not remain hidden.
happy the moment when the far rash of we spread within this mosque pours oil from the oe of the all into this lantern of the heart.
heart, enter the crucible of fire, sit there quietly like a man, for through the influence of this fire the iron became such mirror when abraham entered the flames like gold coin, the regrew from the face of the fire a jasmine bed and roses and lilies if you do not bring your heart out of this tumult into this passion, what will you do with this heart?
come, sit here and tell me.
if out of uncleanliness you do not enter the ring of true men, be outside like a ring on men's door and knock.
since the prophet said fasting is a protection, lay hold of that, do not cast away this shield before the sharpshooting soul.
on this dry land a shield is necessary when you reach theses, then there will grow on your body a coat of mail like a fish to repel his shafts.
it is the rule with drunkards to fall upon one another, tonight and squabble and make tumult.
the lover is worse then the drunkard the lover also belongs to that party.
i will tell what love is it is to fall into goldmine what may that gold be?
the lover is the king of kings it means secure from death and not caring for the golden crown.
the dervish in his cloak, and in his pocket the pearl why should he be ashamed of begging from door to door?
last night that moon came along, having flung his girdle on the road, so drunken that he was not aware that his girdle had fallen i said, leap up, my heart, place wine in the hand of the soul for such a time has befallen, it is time to be roistering, to become hand in hand with the garden nightingale, to fall into sugar with the spiritual parrot.
i, heart forlorn and heart yielded, fallen upon your way by allah, i know of no other place to fall.
if i broke your bowl, i am drunk, my idol.
i am drunk leave me not from your hand to fall into danger.
this is a newborn rule, a newly enacted decree to shatter glasses, and to fall upon the glass maker.
go, know that the code of lovers is opposite to all other ways, for from the beloved lies are better than truth and beneficence.
his impossibility comes to pass, his insalubrious is bonus, his injustice is all rectitude.
calumny from him injustice his hard is soft, his synagogue is the kaaba, the beloved's thorn is better than roses and basil.
the moment when he is bitter is better than a sweatshop, and the moment when he becomes weary, that is kissing and embracing the moment when he says to you, by allah, i am indifferent to you that is the water of from the fountain of life.
the moment when he says no, in his no are a thousand yeses his stranger hood is kinship according to the code of the unselfish his infidelity becomes all faith, his stone all coral, his miserliness all beneficence, his crime all forgiveness.
if you criticize, you say, you have a crooked way of going on i have bought the way of his brow and given my life.
i am drunk with this crooked way i have made enough, and closed my lips rise up, bright heart, and recite the rest of it.
the stag dear power, what sugar you sprinkle.
you might say that out of my mouth proceed a hundred proofs and demonstrations.
become place less in the unity, make your place in the essence of annihilation every head which possesses duality piton a christian neck.
in the cage of being, before this bird of sanctity flies on hewing, make it sugar cracking in thankfulness.
since you were drunk in eternity, seize the sword posterity, like a turk plunder the hindu way of existence.
filter and purify the dregs of your separate being, and fill that glass of true reality with pure wine.
so long as you are a snake of earth, how shall you be a fish of religion?
snake, when you have become a fish, then charge into the sea.
observe the beast, how it holds its head towards the earth if you are a man, why then, lift your head towards the heights.
when in adam's school you have become intimate with the all, sit on the high throne of the king and teach the names.
if you desire the kingship of ilia, proceed first to la seize the broom from la and become a sweeper of things.
if you intend to journey, go on the mount of meaning, and if it be so that you take up residence, let it be in the green dome of heavens be like the sufferer from dropsy who is never satiated however high you get, strive to rise still higher.
every spirit that has an aim keeps his face to the door you aim at this madness, so turn your head towards madness.
the body is not without a shadow, and the shadow cannot be bright fly towards the window and make your flight unaccompanied.
following maj nun's rule, be an agent of turmoil, for this love is declaring, make yourself quit of reason.
become at once a burning fire, and become roasted and well browned become at once drunk and wine, seize fast without either become at once secretive and intimate, be silent and become companion at once become us and become ours, likewise be servant to us.
lest the christian should steal into your monastery, now bra lover of the girdle, now aim at the cross.
you have become learned, but only in existential learning go without existential eyes, make your eyes see.
a moses with the character of, shamed alphabetizer.
lay your head at his boot, seek the white hand.
come, how much is a kiss from that precious ruby?
if a kiss is for a life, it is a duty to buy.
since the kiss is pure and not proper to earth, i will become disengaged spirit, i will emerge from this body.
the sea of purity said to me, no aspiration is granted gratis the pearl of price is with you come, break the shell.
for a kiss of the rose, which confers splendor on wine, the whole world is putting out its tongue like a lily.
i blunder, if you be all kings, if you be like mars and the moon, ask not for a kiss from that untamed darling.
enter, moon of heaven, for i have opened the window forgone night shine on my face, press your lips on mine.
close the door of speech and open the heart's window you will not obtain a kiss of this moon save by way of the window a call came to the soul from the sphere of the pleiades come up, do not sit below like the dregs.
no one remains so long on a journey apart from his homeland and former friends.
well, you have heard the call, return from that king and sweet emperor.
in this ruined waste owls are dwelling what habitation have you fashioned, poor falcon?
what rest does he get, on whichever side he turns, who makes his mattress of thorns?
what bond is there between money changer and counterfeiter?
what relation is there between crow and falcon?
why do you adorn with plaster a ruin which above is covered with paintings and beneath is a prison?
why do you not adorn your soul with wisdom?
for its every word is worth a hundred china and mach insthat wisdom which is the source of disputation is not that wisdom which causes the soul to see the allhood become a jewel so that willingly they will plant you altogether on the golden crown.
be done with going back like a twisted foot be as calif sit single and upright.
since meaning is a horse and words are as a saddle, say, howling will you draw along this saddle without the horse?
throw clods at the love of men you too are a man, but man of clay the wedding of clay creature with clay creature brings shower of clods and stones for a dowry.
look at the tombs beneath the bricks, foryou cannot tell apart their heads from their foundations.
the all, bring my soul safely to the souls by that road on which the family of basin went mingle our prayers with theirs, so that from us comes the prayer and from thee the amen.
grant that thy grace and loving kindness may be such that, as little as our good works may be, from thee comes the well done bring us safely from truthfulness to reasonableness, unto the zenith above from this lower abode.
whither would you fly from my clutch?
who knows how trend the net of omnipotence?
since you have not the foot to flee from me, bend down your neck, have done with obstinacy.
run towards sweetness like unripe grapes, if you know how to run inwardly.
caught in the net you are biting the rope this rope shall not broken by biting.
do you not see how your head is in my bowstring?
you are avow, you must bend to the string.
why do you kick up your hind legs saying, i have escaped the load?
i have merely let you go for a moment to graze.
in fear and awe of me the sea's heart surges with billows and throbbing if the rocky mountain should encounter that blow, it wouldn't be able to leap out of my chains.
until my command says to heaven, enough, it must go on spinning around my earthwork desire is a milk from the teats of satan your reason is to suck asses'milk.
earth's mouth is dry out of despair for me, without me it cannot swallow a single mouthful.
who is able to attack my quarry?
who is able to purchase my slave?
he whom i have seized and chosen, whom shall he choose other than me?
the soul has no security save in love it is necessary to creationist lovers.
lovers have security in both worlds even so they were at the time of creation.
it behooves not the sheep to scatter away from the shepherd towards the wolves because the shepherd is cruel.
this shepherd will not shed the blood of the sheep, forhe knows to rear them to eternal life.
know that the companions of the body are the companions of the elephant how can such ever reach the kaaba?
for the kaaba is the world's navel, the elephant is the nose it is not possible to draw the nose to the navel.
become as abigail, and do not flee from the elephant the heart is like abigail in picking up grains.
it plucks the enemy like grains, it knows to hear the message of the kaaba.
through the heart you will mount to the heavens, through the heart the rose of felicity will blossom through the heart you will travel to the beloved, through the heart you will escape the body's shame.
the heart has a cauldron cooked for your sake wait patiently it is cooked.
the mistress is the heart of hearts the bat is unable to see the sun.
see how every particle of the world is passing by, see how everyone has arrived from a journey see how everyone desirous of his own sustenance has bowed his head before his king.
see how, like the stars, for the sake of its glow, are all fallen helpless at the foot of the sun see how, like torrents in quest of water, all are tumbling headlong towards their sea.
see how for each from the king's kitchen a table is prepared according to his needs.
see how the sea of the world is contracted before their sea drinking cup.
and as for those whose sustenance is the king's countenance, see how their mouths are filled with sugar of the king's beauty.
behold with the eyes of theif, see another ocean filled with pearls.
this is love to fly to heaven, every moment to end a hundred veils at first instance, to break away from breath first step, to renounce feet to disregard this world, to see only that which you yourself have seen.
i said, heart, congratulations on entering the circle of lovers, on gazing beyond the range of the eye, on running into the alley of the breasts.
whence came this breath, heart?
whence came this throbbing, heart?
bird, speak the tongue of birds i can heed your cipher.
the heart said, i was in the factory whilst the home of water and clay was bakingi was flying from the workshop whilst the workshop was being created.
when i could no more resist, they dragged me how shall tell the manner of that dragging?
that enemy of soul and mind and faith has returned, shaking his sleeves plunderer of a hundred thousand houses, devastator of hundred thousand shops, stirrer up of a hundred thousand tumults, amazement a hundred thousand amazed ones, that nurse of reason and bane of reason, that friend of the soul and enemy of the soul.
whither will he transport my light reason?
he seeks a reason like that of lumberman how does he accept my worthless soul?
he seeks a soul like the sea of oman.
he came, saying, bring the tribute of the village.
i said, what village?
it is a ruined village.
your flood has shattered cities how shall a village stand amid the flood?
he said, ruins are the abode of treasures it is our ruin, muslim.
give us the ruin, or go forth do not upbraid, do not speak at random.
the ruin is of yourself once you have gone it thrives through the justice of the king.
do not disassemble and say i have gone do not hide behind the door.
make yourself as one dead, that you may become ing byte spirit of a man.
you said, you shall not be in the midst that saying of yours is the essence of koran.
the work you do, yourself not in the midst, that is work done by the all know this for sure.
i will recite the rest of the poem in secret it cannot be told before the uninitiated.
silence.
for there are a hundred thousand differences between the tongue's utterance and the light of revelation.
do not grieve over any joy that has gone forever, for it will return to you in another form, know that for sure.
did not the child find joy in its nursing and in milk?
when the child was weaned from milk, the joy came from wine and honey this joy is an unqualified thing which enters various forms, moves from box to box between water and clayit suddenly displays its grace in the water of the rain, again enters into the rosebud, and lifts its head from the earth.
now it comes by water, now by way of bread and meat, norway way of beauty, now by way of horse and saddle.
from behind these veils suddenly one day it peeps and shatters all the idols, that which is neither that nor this.
the soul in sleep leaves the body and appears in a phantasm the body is deposed and idle in another form it is manifest.
you might say, in a dream i saw myself like a cypress, my face as a bed of tulips, my body as roses and jasmine.
that phantasm of the cypress vanished, the soul returned touts house verily in this and that is a warning to all beings.
i fear stirring up trouble, though i would have spoken what may be spoken, the all speaks fairer than i do not let go of straddles of the faith.
fa humboldt fa humboldt ‘until fatilde, if you have not gold wheat bread, yet speak the golden words.
at last, of the soul, look upon the stars of the heart, that you may see this mundane sun to be a reflection of shadiness my kind of moon face ones went up to his sick lovers, saying, pale cheeks and saffron bed of mine.
i will water my saffron bed, i will convert the saffron to roses with my fountain of life.
yellow and red, thorn and rose are at my control and command set not your head save on the line of my command, my command.
the world's rose faced ones have stolen beauty from my beauty they have stolen an atom of my beauty and beneficence> in the end these moon face ones are straw face that is the state of thieves in the presence of my king.
day has come earthly ones, restore the stolen goods.
my soul, whence come goods for earthly man, and whence beauty?
when at night the sun has vanished, the stars make boast.
venus says, know it is mine the moon says, no, mine.
jupiter produces jamar gold from his purse mars says to saturn, see my cutting dagger.
mercury takes the high seat i am the sadr urals, the heavens are my kingdom, the zodiacs are my pillars.
oi with dawn the sun draws up his army from the east saying, thieves, where have you gone?
see, it is mine.
venus is terrified, the moon's neck is broken mercury has become dry and cold with my shining face.
the business of mars and saturn is ruined by our light jupiter is bankrupt, saying, alas, my purse is gone.
when the sun had run afield, came a cry, powerlessness, get out of my field.
i am the sun of the sun sun, depart.
sink into the well of the west enter my prison.
at dawn lift your head from the grave of the east and comet life make the deniers of the resurrection aware of my proof.
every man's festival is the month moon to which he is sacrifice your festival is my month moon, you who are sacrifice to me.
when bossshone from the house of northeastern, the glow of his essence surpassed my bounds and potentialities.
the intellectual is all the time engaged in showing off the lover is all the time unselfish and distraught intellectuals are running away, afraid of drowning the whole business and trade of lovers is drowning in the sea.
plus intellectuals find repose by contriving repose lovers think its shame to be attached to repose.
the lover will be in a circle, alone from everyone, just as oil and water, though in the same place, are separate.
the man who goes to the trouble of offering advice to lovers gets nothing for his pains but to be a mockery of passion.
love has the scent of musk, it is therefore notorious how can musk escape from such notoriety?
love is like a tree, and lovers are the shade of that tree though the shade fall afar, yet it must attend the tree.
for the station of intellect a child must become an old man in the station of love you see an old man become youthfulness i, whoever has chosen to be lowly in love for you, thereby rises to heights sublime as your love.
saki, now that you are drunk, fling yourself on me to recollect tomorrow is credit smite the neck of credit.
the year is our year, and the ascendant is the ascendant of venus and the moonheart, this pleasure and joy has no bounds be at rest.
glow and gaiety have penetrated to the heart of stone and steel if you do not believe, strike the stone upon the steel.
look at the host, see the happiness upon his face sit at this table and dip your bowl in the oil.
summon up nimble reason and seat it beside happiness jovial apply your bright soul to bright wine.
the branches are drunk and dancing in the wind of spring jasmine, be drunk, and cypress, stroke the lily.
they have cut green garments at the shop of the unseen tailor, rise up, sit at your shop, stick in your needle.
what light is that in the midst of the darkness of your soul?
a royal splendor is shining in my heart who is that?
it appears that it is the fantasy of the king's moon like face, that it is the succoring shelter of the day of misery.
all this splendor and beauty and grace and loveliness and charm is the pride of souls, bossqiqihar dirndl the human soul cannot endure the clear exposition of his qualities all that it can endure of his qualities, my heart, is by allusion for how should eternal qualities display themselves in mortality to a mixture which itself is of the mortal world?
how far does that beauty, which the all engraved of his own hand, transcend an image created by alar or mam.
the eye that has beheld him, and then looked on another than him, must be stoned, lot it is worthless.
heart, in lover hood abandon your good name, for the beginning of love is notoriety and evil fame.
in the sea of his love the soul's clothes are an embarrassment to seek in love lot name and bread is rawness, my heart.
even the love of the generality of people has this specialty, my heart all the more especially this love which belongs to that lofty assembly.
zephyr, bring the earth of as a present for my sake, forin preciousness it compares with a jewel of the quarry.
lover, open your two eyes and behold in yourself tour streams a stream of water, a stream of wine, streams of milk and honey.
lover, look into yourself, do not be a laughingstock of men, so that grandson says this, and grandson says that.
i am the slave of that all seeing rose which is indifferent whether grandson calls it thorn, or grandson calls it jasmine.
then open your eyes henceforward, walk not with the eyes of men, that grandson says you are a guerrero and grandson man of true religion.
the all of his generosity gave you the eye of vision, to whose languidness the pinion of gabriel prostates.
bandage not the narcissus eye, and take not the vulture eye bandage not the first eye, and look not with the squint eye lovers of form have fallen into form, like the fly which falls from honey into a vat of whey.
rejoice, you who play at love with the eternal almighty with such wings, why should you sorrow over water and clay?
if you desire that gabriel should become your slave, begone prostrate before adam at once, accursed div\if the blood drinking desert had knowledge of my kaaba, on all sides a rose bower would appear, on all sides spring water you who continue to regard the evil and good of people, how is it you have become content with that?
may the power help you.
since heaven itself had not the strength to bear the all's trust, how is it that bosshas diffused it in the earth?
by the all, i have no inclination towards either fat or sweet, nor for the purse full of gold, neither for the golden cup.
you draw the people of earth to heaven the moon exclaims, what grace and generosity.
what amazing power and authority.
when your fantasy shines on me like the moon at the full, venus and the pleiades bite their forearms and fingers in envy.
ha, thanks be to the all that i have attained this kingdom it was all true, what your love said to me again and again of old.
when he saw me on tiptoe, he signaled to me saying, what you desire has come to pass be secure and be seated.
all creatures in intoxication of joy bow down before him lamb and are friendly together, no envy or hatred in the heart they are so drunk they cannot tell the way to town from the way home they know not whether we are men, extraordinary, or colored clay.
goblet in hand and distraught, i wonder what am i to do with this?
drink it or bestow it?
you tell me, sweet king.
you drink what bestowing should there be?
for your turn has come.
lo, i have drunk lo, i have drunk, since i am specified before your drink this wine of the throne, whereof if you were to place one cup in the hand of a dead man, he would respond to the prompting beautiful one, by your roguish eye, signal with your eye forgone moment repair with a glance this your ruin.
heart and soul, martyrs to your love, in the tomb of the body pass along by the tomb of those martyrs, pay a pilgrimage.
you are come like a joseph, all egypt has cut its hands display your charm and take my heart and soul, do a deal.
or if you have stamped your foot tyrannically and sworn avow, then break your vow what matter?
do expiation.
say not, what profit shall i have from this offering of yours?
you need not profit give, and take a loss.
convert this saffron like cheek into the like of roses and anemones make a rejoicing heart out of three or four drops of blood.
since fortune is your slave, it will never rebel against youking, be an ambassador between us and fortune.
since sins are as a straw before the mountain of your clemency, look with disdain upon our mountain of sins.
our body was two drops of blood that became pure and human you also cleanse the impure quality.
since souls here become the prisoner of water and clay from the world of the spirit, deer them from the clay, abode of war, and make a raid.
since i have repented of words, for the sake of the disciples instead of words issue a meaningful signal and command.
this fire like breath is for the sake of making warm make aglow other than your breath a source of heat.
you who are king fuck, by the shining manifestation of yourself, make lovely the abode of vision.
since you deserted me death is for me joy and ease without you, death has become for me like honey and milk.
the water less fish quivers on that rough sand until its feeble soul may become parted from its body.
for the ing ones, the water of life has become the water of bitterness pure sugar has become worse for them than the grave and winding sheet it is no mere game, the drawing of the part to the origin, the all how often the prophet wept for love of his homeland.
the child who does not know his homeland and birthplace desires a nurse istanbul or yemen they are all one to him.
the star goes to graze in the pasture of the skies the animal worships earth, like cypress and jasmine.
though i close my mouth to silence this lamentation, it's not possible to close one's mouth in the belly of the water.
the frog's breath is of water, not of the wind of the air thesis the custom and craft of sea creatures.
gnostics who are hidden in that ocean flight, their breaths all of darkness shattering light.
when i reached this point, my pen and tablet broke the mountain is shattered when it becomes aware of the power of grace.
all have eaten and fallen asleep, and the house has become empty it is time for us to saunter forth to the garden, to draw the skirt of the apple towards the peach, to carry few words from the dewy rose to the jasmine.
springtide is like the messiah, it is all art, a spell, that plainclothesman may arise from their winding sheets since those fair idols opened their mouths in gratitude, the soul not attaining a kiss is drunk with the perfume of their mouths the glow on the cheeks of rose and tulip informs me that there is a lamp hidden in this place under the screen.
the leaf trembles on the twig, and my heart is trembling the leaf trembles in the wind, my heart for the beauty of khorana the hand of the zephyr has fanned the censor till it taught good manners to the children of the garden.
the breath of the holy spirit has encountered the trees of mary see how husband and wife are playing with hands together in joy.
the cloud, seeing the lovely ones beneath the canopy, scattered over them jewels and pearls of aden.
now that the red rose in joy has rent it's skirt, the time has come for the shirt to reach jacob.
since the yemeni carnelian of the beloved's lips laughed, the scent of the all reaches muhammad from yemen.
we have spoken much at random, and our heart has not found repose save upon that scattered trees of the king of the time wherever you set your toot, my darling, tulip and violet and jasmine spring up.
you breathe upon a piece of clay, and it becomes either adobe or a kite.
you wash your hands in a dish and from the water of your hand that basin becomes of gold.
you recite the tisha over a grave and a bullfight raises his head from the winding sheet your skirt strikes against the clutch of a thorn, and its clutch becomes a strumming lute.
every idol you have broken, abraham, receives life and finds intellect from that breaking.
since the new moon shone upon an evil starred one, it became the greatest good fortune and he escaped from misfortune.
every moment there springs from the court of your breast newborn without mother or father, like adam.
and thereafter from his side and loins children abound in the earth i wanted to speak couplets on this rhyme i closed my lips, that you might open your mouth.
clear the wordless subtleties, and understand what catches not the understanding.
inside the stone like heart of man is a fire which burns up the veil, root and branch when the veil is burnt he discovers all the stories of karaganda the knowledge from us.
between the soul and the heart appears new and ever new forms from the ancient love.
when you recite by the sun behold the sun.
behold the mine of gold when you recite ba yak on last night i saw poverty in a dream, i became beside myself from its beauty.
from the loveliness and perfection of the grace of poverty was dumbfounded until dawn.
i saw poverty like a mine of ruby, so that through its hue became clothed in silk.
i heard the clamorous rapture of lovers, i heard the cry of drink now, drink.
i saw a ring all drunken with poverty i saw its ring in my own ear.
i saw many forms in the light of poverty, i saw many a form of the soul in its face.
from the midst of my soul a hundred surging rose when beheld the surging of the sea.
heaven uttered a hundred thousand cries i am the slave of such a leader.
though long enough i have sat in fire up to my neck, now ian up to my neck in the water of union with the beloved.
i said, i am immersed in your graces up to my neck.
the darling was not content with me up to the neck.
he said, make your head a foot, descend into the depths, for this affair does not come out right only up to the nekci said, my head, beloved, is your shoe only be content, my two eyes, with up to my neck this time.
he said, you are less than a thorn which was up to the necking earthfornine months waiting for the rose.
i said, what is the thorn?
for the sake of your rosebud have sat often in blood up to my neck like the rose.
he said, through love you have escaped from the world of allurement, where you were struggling impotently up to your neck you escaped from the world, but not from yourself yourself existence is a disgrace, and this disgrace is up to your neck.
lay not traps cunningly, give up trickery the ticketmaster in his own trap up to the neck.
the trap of this world is a trap through which kings and lions have remained like dogs in the carrion up to the neck.
there is a stranger trap than this, through which you may see the reason less fallen up to the ankle, the prudent up to the neckenough of speech, now that breath is cut off after all, speech does not reach up to the neck from choking.
go, lay your head on the pillow, let me alone leave me ruined and night faring and afflicted as i am.
i am wrestling with the wave of passion alone through night till day if you will, come and have mercy if you will, go and be cruel flee from me that you too may not fall into calamity choose the path of safety, leave the path of calamity.
we with our tears flowing have crept in the corner of grief turn the mill a hundred times upon our tears.
a tyrant we have who has a heart like flint he slays, and noon says to him, prepare to pay the blood money to the king of the lovely bones faithfulness is not obligatory pale lover, you endure, be faithful.
this is a pain of which no cure exists but to die, so how shall i say, cure this pain?
last night in a dream i saw an elder in the quarter of love he beckoned to me with his hand, saying, set out towards me.
if a dragon is on the path, love is like an emerald with the flash of this emerald repel the dragon.
enough, for i am beside myself, if you would be a man of superior learning, recite the history.
did you see what january said?
lay brushwood like a stack december brought not cold, the cold of both be on me.
since the cold has become stubborn, lay brushwood on the fire do you spare brushwood?
is brushwood better, or the body?
brushwood is the fleeting form, the all's love is the fire burn up the forms, pure skirted soul.
until you burn up the form, your spirit will be frozen, like idol worshipers far from springtime and security.
in fire like love, be happy like silver since you are a child of abraham, fire is your dwelling.
by the all's command, fire becomes for true men tulip and rose, clusters of basil, willow and lily.
the believer knows the spell and recites it over the fire threat remains in it no more, it remains shining as the moon.
blessed be the spell through which peace befalls in a fire which can transform iron into needle.
the moth flings itself upon the kindled fire because the fire reveals itself lit in the shape of a window.
to ham arrow and spear appear as scattering roses in scatter of roses no man clothes himself in armor.
pharaoh was dissolved in the water like whey moses sat on the brow of the water like oil.
horses of spirit are the carriers of princes dull and sluggish horses carry packs and dung.
speech is like a hopper on the mill of meaning the mill turns by water, not by regulating the hopper.
from that hopper, my brother, the wheat leaps from the bucket and falls in the mill and becomes well and truly ground.
so from that hopper of expression, out of the bucket of greed and negligence, you fall into the mill, that is in a clearly expressed way.
my soul, i am hot, but not from chatter it is from the golden sun of the faith, from whom is like a mine.
sit with lovers, altogether choose lover hood be not for moment companion with him who is not a lover.
and if it be that the beloved has drawn the curtain of all might, go, gaze on the face of him who is not veiled behold that face on whose cheeks are the marks of his face contemplate him on whose brow shines the sun.
inasmuch as the sun has laid his two cheeks on his cheeks, through his cheeks the moon on earth is checkmated.
in his tresses is the copy of thee we serve in his eyes the glance in thee we beg for succor.
his body, like the body of a phantom, is without blood and veins inside and outside it is all milk and honey.
inasmuch as the beautiful takes him into his embrace, he has carried away the scent of the beloved and let go the scent of clay.
he is a morn without a dawn, an evening without henna, an essence without attributes, a life without sorrow.
how should the sun borrow light from the sky?
how should the rosebush borrow perfume from the jasmine?
be speechless as a fish and pure as the water of the sea that you may quickly become the trustee over the treasury of the pearl i will speak in your ear do not tell anyone.
who is all that?
bossdin, the pride of i have heard that you are intending to journey do not.
that you give your love to another friend and companion do not.
you are a stranger in the world why do you estrange yourself?
what heart wounded victim are you aiming at?
do not.
do not steal yourself from us, do not go to strangers.
you're stealthily glancing at the others do not.
moon for whom the heavens are autopsy, you waste sand turn us autopsy do not.
what promise do you make and what oath do you swear?
you make a shield of oaths and blandishments do not.
where are the pledge and compact you made to your servant?
you depart from your pledge and word do not.
you whose court is higher than being and not being, you are transgressing the bound of being do not.
you at whose command hell and heaven are slaves, you make paradise like gehenna to me do not.
in your sugarcane plot we are secure from poison you are commingling that poison with the sugar do not.
my soul is like a fiery furnace is that not enough for you?
through absence you are making my face pale as gold do not.
when you withdraw your lace, the moon is darkened with grief you are intending the eclipse of the moon's orb do not.
our lips become dry when you bring a draft why are you wetting my eyes with tears?
do not.
since you cannot endure the shackling of lovers, why then do you dazzle the eye of reason?
do not.
you do not give sweetmeats to one sick of a fever you hurt still more him whose sickness you are do not.
my lawless eye is the thief of your beauty.
beloved, you require the thievish eye do not.
withdraw, comrade, forit is no time for speech.
why do you thrust yourself forward in the bewilderment of love?
do not.
give yourself a kiss, silvery bodied idol you who are in cathay, do not search for yourself in khorana if you would draw a silvery bodied one into your bosom, where is the like of you?
you must kiss the beloved, then caress your own mouth.
for the sake of your beauty are the robes of the hawk man the beauty of every man or woman is the reflection of your lovely face the veil over your beauty is the tresses of your hair, else the light of you would have shone out, sweet of chin.
the painter of the body came towards the idols of the thoughts his hand and heart were broken, his mouth stood open this painted cage is the veil of the bird of the heart you haven't recognized the heart because of the heartbreaking cage.
the heart flung off the veil from the clay of adam, and all of the angels prostrated themselves.
the intermediary would vanish if only for a moment love's truck sat down before his grace, saying, michele, who are you?
the eye would be endowed with sight of the unseen, if the glance of bossdin, pride of all of, stole a wink at you.
whatever you do, know it is done by me whatever the body does, the soul has done it.
you are my eyes, you are my ears i have mentioned these two, remember the rest.
if that treasure was not in the world, then to what end wouldst be a ruined house?
seek the treasure, my father move your hand, move your hand his sweet scent has become our guide to rose and basil, morose and basil.
atom by atom all are purchasers beware, do not sell your pearl cheaply.
the mouse will come out, the cat will come out, if you open the mouth of the bag.
when love is there, the soul suffers no diminution may the shadow of the beloved not be atari will recite the rest of this, moon face moon, shining venus.
by your own life i implore, do not withdraw from this heartless wretch suffer me still, do not make for your house.
do not think of pretexts, leave excuses aside treat me not aloofly, be not haughty.
wine is at hand, fortune our boon companion, and you thesauri give the wine, play not saki's frauds.
cast your glance at your companions who are drunk with you, do not gaze at window and porch and threshold.
pass not your time save in the lovers'circle, make not your nest save in the tavern quarter.
see, the world is a snare and desire the bait hasten not introits snare, desire not the bait.
when you have passed out of its snare, set your foot on the sky let naught but the sphere of the threshold be under your feet.
heed not sunshine and moonshine be alone, and seek only that alone.
rest not without him, like a bowl tossed on the water donor take the bowl and set it running to every kitchen.
time is bright and dark, warm and cold in turns make not your abode save at the fountainhead of time.
praise him not, neither cover him with reproaches offer not pastries, and do not throw forward that garlic.
but what is the use?
for such are the ways of vain idols.
donor say to the brand of fire, do not make a flame.
say to whatever your burn, burn, save with separation that is not allowable, do not perpetuate this one tyranny either if my words were not worthy of your lips, then pick up heavy stone and shatter my mouth.
when a child speaks nonsense, does not the loving mother prick his lips to teach him manners?
for the sake of the majesty of your lips, burn and tear and rend and dash to pieces two hundred mouths and worlds.
when a thirsty man boldly runs to the seashore, does not the wave lift up its sword to his neck?
i am the slave of the lily which, having seen your rose bower and been put to shame by your narcissus, its ten tongues became dumb.
but i am like a tambourine when you strike your hand one i cry out, beat my face like a mortar.
lay me not aside until the concert grows hot draw your skirt aside from the impure world.
yes, the eyes are intoxicated from the rose bower of meaning, yet the song of the bulb is sweet in the rose bower.
if joseph's beauty is fairer naked, yet the eyes are not opened save by his shirt.
though the glitter of the sun of the soul is the origin, roman has reached that heaven without a body.
silence.
for if the corpse washer binds my mouth, you will hear this melody from the grave after i am dead.
io seven seas, bestow pearls and transmute these things of brass candle of drunkards and cypress of the garden, how long these tricks?
at last keep faith.
every granite rock wept for us, beloved cure this our pain.
you angrily turned away your face for a moment have done with this behavior.
you once showed much beneficence and humanity redouble that humanity.
fair of course, moon and star, be generous in the darkness of night like the moon.
separate from us the ancient pain, the anguish of sickness, and the orphan's dust.
though i be in paradise, in gold and silver, without you i'm an orphan cure me.
have closed my lips and sat in sorrow open my hand, makeforencounter.
my darling came to me through him my roof and door sprang to life.
i said, tonight you are my guest, my provocation and disturbance he said, let me go there is important business for me in the city, soul and head of mine.
i said, by the all, if you depart, tonight this bodily form of mine will not e. why, will you not for one night show compassion upon my golden pale cheek?
will not your happy eye show compassion upon this lament and wet eye of mine?
let the rosebud of your cheek scatter roses over my tears sweet as katharine he said, what can i do, seeing that fate has poured the blood of all men into my cup?
i am of mars, and only blood is in my ascendant, my starvation no incense is accepted by the all until it enters my crucible.
i said, since your aim is my life, only blood should be my food and dessert.
you are cypress and rose, i am your shadow i am slain bayou, you are my haida he said, only a rarity shall be my sacrificial offering, servant of mine.
gurus is arriving, forevery moment he is newly slain in my land.
isaac the prophet should have been sacrificed to the dust of my door.
i am love, and if i shed your blood i will bring you to life inky resurrection.
beware, do not flutter in my clutch, do not shrink from my daggermake not a wry face at death that my breast may give thanks to you.
laugh like the rose when death plucks you out and plunges you in my sugar.
you are isaac and i am your father how should i shatter you, my jewel?
love is the father, the lover his flock of him is born my pomp and pride.
so saying, he departed like the zephyr the tears flowed from my eyes.
i said, what would it be to you if you were to be kind and depart slowly, my master?
do not hasten a little more slowly.
life and world and hundred petaled rose of mine.
no one ever saw me hurry this is my more lazy pace.
yon sphere of heaven, if it tried its utmost, would never reach to where i pass.
he said, silence.
for this gray horse of heaven goes lamely in my presence.
silence.
for if you are not silent, this flame of mine will fall upon the thicket.
do not say the rest of it till another day, that my heart mayn't flee from my breast.
my saki rises without my speaking and brings that wine of abundant price.
there is no need for me to say, bring, he hears the voice of my heart without mouth.
his intercessor is his own grace, his boundless generosity and goodness the moon rises, do not say to it, arise it casts light on you, do not say, cast.
you in time of festivity, the best joy and pleasure and in time of battle, the greatest breaker of ranks.
excellent guide for all who have lost the way, fine rope for all imprisoned in the well the world is like night, and you the moon you are like candle, the souls a sconce.
the soul is redress like a mote with you it becomes tranquil, excellent tranquillity.
you are my life, you are my life, my life you are my own, you are my own, my own.
you are my king, worthy of my passion you are my candy, worthy of my teeth.
you are my light dwell within these eyes of mine, my eye sand fountain of life.
when the rose beheld you, it said to the lily, my cypress tree came to my rose garden.
say, how are you in respect to two scattered things.
your hair, and my distracted state?
the rope of your hair is my shackle, the well of your chin ism prison.
where are you going, drunk, shaking your hands?
come to me, my laughing rose.
a cry went up from my tavern, the heavens were split by my litany finally victory has arrived, the beloved has entered to tend me.
power, power, how he is acting, my unequaled beloved, to recompense me.
that philosophers'stone makes obedience and faith from my neglect and unbelief and sins.
after my shortcomings he bestows a palace, after my slips he bestows victuals.
he causes the heart of sea and mountain to surge from thereat of the day of my encounter.
if the thoughts of man were not a veil, they would be burnt to ashes by my thoughts.
my drum and flag, my cry and shouting would strike agitation in the army of the spirit the fire of my tryst at midnight would strike flames into the horizon of the sky.
come nearer, my pretty idol, my sympathetic idol of like hue with me.
see how my heart has become constricted with your coquettish, till you say to me, my suffering one.
i battle with my heart as with an enemy till you say, bravo, my general.
how long will you ask, why is this face of yours pale?
it is through grieving for you, my rose hued idol.
last night all night to venus reached the lamenting of this lyre shaped body of mine.
purchase back my soul from my body, that my soul may escape my shame.
through the grace of your ruby lips my stone like heart has become a banker of gold.
accord peace to my soul and to me, for all my war is on your account my foot becomes swifter going than the wind, if you say, come, my lame one.
oi for this reason i am bound and suspended from you, that my rope of grapes through you may become like sugar.
you are indifferent to me, and i am miserable oh, what shall i become if you desire me?
the izanagi of grief is at the door of happiness of rum ransom my rum from my zane i fear not the untimeliness and the distance of the way through you my para sang has become half a foot.
my old age has become better than childhood, my wrinkled face has become fresh again.
be silent, be bewildered as silent ones, so that he may say to you, my silent and bewildered one.
once more our crescent moon has reaped a harvest, and we have paraded fourth despite the foe.
once more the sun has entered aries, made the world to laugh like a rose garden.
the blossoms have mirthfully opened their lips, the lily hastily become a tongue.
what stains they have put on in the garden for that tailor who has no scissors or needle.
every tree has set on its head a tray full of sweetmeats without syrup and oil.
we have made our bellies a drum once more, since the drummer of spring began drumming.
the surface of the water, which in winter was as iron, has become ruffled like chainmail by the wind perchance the early spring is the david of time, who has fashioned a coat of armor out of that iron.
the all proclaimed in nonexistence, herbs those condoles have left the dwelling turn your faces to the height of existence like the birds of abraham from their nest.
that gnostic crane has returned from exile, about him the stammering birds uttering praises.
the routed ones who had become hidden have each put their head out of the window.
the greenlandic have put forth their heads, ear and neck full of collars and jewels.
it is concert, and thousands of hawk man in the garden are stamping their feet on the tomb of january.
willow, awake and move your head and ears, if you have bright eyes like the narcissus.
i say to speech, abandon me speech is contentious, it incoming after me.
i do not desire, because of his hard face, to declare the talk of lovers the rose calls, ye diamante, rejoice with us whoever was sorrowful the earth has become verdant with light, and the all has said to the naked, adorn yourself.
the fugitives have returned to life, the div cm of the resurrection is now organized.
by the all's command they died, then they came to life.
remade them decay for a while, then made them fair.
the all's sun is rising with bounty, the proof of his handiwork established.
we have dyed the plants without a dye, we measure their size without a mold.
paradise on paradise on paradise dazzles one, take up your home therein.
we have stirred up the souls to the heights this one has attained union, that one played the pharaoh.
ah, be silent and address them with silence, for silence is more revealing of secrets.
lovers, lovers, whoever sees his lace, his reason becomes distraught, his habit confounded.
he becomes a seeker of the beloved, his shop is ruined, reruns headlong like water in his river.
he becomes in love like maj nun, head spinning like the sky whoever is sick like this, his remedy is unobtainable.
the angels prostrate before him who became the all's dust, the turk of heaven becomes the servant of him who has become his hindu slave.
his love places the aching heart on his hand and smells it how did not that rejoice which has become his.
many a breast he has wounded, many a sleep he has barred that magical glance of his has bound the hand of the magicians.
kings are all his beggars, beauties clippings of his beauty, lions drop their tail on the earth before his street dogs glance once at heaven, at the fortress of the spiritual ones, romany lamps and torches on his towers and battlements.
the keeper of his fortress is universal reason, that king without drum and labor he alone climbs that fortress who no longer possesses his own brownness moon, have you seen his face and stolen beauty from him?
night, have you seen his hair?
no, no, not one hair on him.
this night wears black as a sign of mourning, like a black robed widow whose husband has gone into the earth.
night makes a pretense and imposture secretly it makes merry, its eye closes no eye, its brow is set awry.
night, i do not believe this lamenting of yours you are running like a ball before the mallet of fate.
he who is struck by his mallet carries the ball of happiness, he runs headlong like the heart about his street.
our cheeks are like saffron through love of his tulip bed, our heart is sunk like a comb in his hair.
where is love's back?
love is all face, back and face belong to this side, his side is only face.
he is free of form, his business is all form fashioning heart, you will never transcend form because you are not single with him.
the heart of every pure man knows the voice of the heart from the voice of clay this is the roaring of a lion in the form of his deer.
what is woven by the hand of the one becomes revealed, becomes revealed from the workmanship of the weaver and his hand and shuttle.
souls his shuttle, our fibula his street, heaven is the sweeper of this street, this earth its mistress.
my heart is burning with envy for him, my eyes have become his water bags how should he be wet with tears, while the sea is up to his knees?
this love has become my guest, struck a blow against my soul a hundred compassion and a hundred blessings to his hand and arm.
i flung away hand and foot and had done with searching my searching is dead before his searching.
often i said, heart, be silent to this heart's passion myna is useless when my heart hears his hit.
the glow of the light of daybreak is in your emerald vault, the goblet of the blood of twilight is your blood curdling mile on mile, torrent on torrent come dancing and gliding to the shore of your sea.
with all the elevation and aspiration of the moon, the cap falls off the head of the moon when the moon raises its face to gaze upon your height.
every morn the nightingale's lament like the hearthstones to the melodies of those attaining your verdant meadow the spirits seek vision, the hearts all seek the beloved you in whose broad orchard four streams are let flow one stream pure water, another honey, the third fresh milk, the fourth your ruby wine.
you never give me a chance, you are giving wine up wine where is the head, that i may describe the drinking cup of your wine?
yet who am i?
heaven itself in the round of this heavy bumper finds not a moment's peace from your love and the craving for you.
moon of silver girdle, you have experience of love heaven, lover hood is apparent in your features.
when love is yoked to the heart it wearies of the heart's chatter heart, be silent.
how long this striving and inquiring of yours?
the heart said, i am his reed pipe, i wail by his breath.
i said, be lamenting now, the slave of whose passion is the soul we have opened your door do not desert your companions in thankfulness for an all embracing love which has seized you from head to toe.
when laughter leaps forth from me, i keep laughter hidden from him i make a sour face at him i shout and scream at him.
if you joke and laugh at the sour ones, war arises i have hidden my laughter, i drop tears at him.
a huge city is my body, grief on one side, i on the other onside i have water from him, on the other fire.
with his sours i am sour, with his sugars i am sugar he is my face, he is my back, through him i scratch the back of joy.
a hundred the likes of me and you have become drunk in his meadow, dancing, hand clapping on the summit of every dome through him.
i am the parrot of candy and sugar, i eat only sugar whatever sour is in the world, i am far and indifferent to it.
if he has given you sourness, to me he has given honey and sugar he has made you jolting and lame, me smooth and even of pace.
whoever travels not on this road, his path is all gully and steep i who am on this royal road am on a level path through him my heart is the mastoid nasdaq, my heart is the paradise home all my traces through him have become hawk man and light.
to whomsoever the all gives laughter, laughter leaps from his mouth if you doubt him, i am altogether in acknowledgment him.
the rose's portion is laughter, it has no weeping what shallot do?
lilies and roses are blooming in my conscious heart through him.
patience was saying, i bear good tidings of union from him gratitude was saying, i am the owner of stocks through him.
reason was saying, i am abstinent and sick through him love was saying i am a magician and cut purse through him.
spirit was saying, i am a pearl possessing treasure through him treasure was saying, i am at the foundation of the wall through him.
ignorance was saying, i am without knowledge and consciousness through him knowledge was saying, i am the chief of the bazaar through him.
abstinence was saying, i understand the secrets through him poverty was saying, i am without heart and turban through him.
if bossha returns to me from, all my discourses will be expounded and revealed through him.
whatever comes of the world's affairs, how does that affect your business?
if the two worlds have become an idol temple, where is that roguish idol of yours?
grant that the world is in famine, there is no bowl of wine and bread any moreking of the manifest and hidden, where are your measure and store?
grant that the world is all thorn, scorpion and snake joy and gladness of the soul, where are your rose bower and rosebud?
grant that liberality itself is dead, that miserliness has slain allour heart and eye, where are your pension and robe of honor?
grant that both the sun and the moon have sunk into hello succor of hearing and sight, where are your torch and light?
grant that the jeweler is not after any customer, how shall you not take the leadership?
where is your pearl raining cloud?
grant there is no mouth, there is no speech of tongue to tell the secrets where is the surging of your heart?
come, leave all this, for we are drunk with union and encounter the hour is late come quickly, where is this house of your vintner?
drunken sharpener of mine, my fellow in heart and hand, if you are not dissolute and in dotage, where are your cloak and turban?
a whore has carried off your cap, another your gown your face is pale with a moon like beauty where is your support and protection?
a stranger is waylaying the path to the drunkards of eternity why do you not act the policeman?
where is your wound thrust?
where are your gallows?
silence, scattershot.
interpret not to ordinary people what is fit only for the ears of the silent ones where is your ecstasy and speech?
say, how shall a part of the world depart from the world?
how shall moisture escape from water, one leap from two?
no fire dies from another fire, my sonmy heart bleeding of love, wash not my blood in blood.
however much i fled, my shadow did not leave me shadow must be in charge of me, even though i become as the thread of hair.
only the sun has the power to drive away shadows, the sun increases and diminishes them seek this from the sun.
though for two thousand years you are running in the back of the shadow, in the end you will see that you are behind and the shadow before.
your sin has become your service, your pain your blessing, your candle your darkness, your bonds seeking and questing.
i would explain this, only it would break the back of your heart when you break the glass of the heart, repairs are of no avail you must have both shadow and light together listen to me, lay your head down and prostrate yourself before the tree of the fear of the all.
when from the tree of his grace wings and feathers sproutforyou, be silent as a dove, do not open your mouth for cooing.
when a frog enters water, the snake cannot reach it the frog croaks and gives information so that the snake knows where he is.
even though the cunning frog should hiss like a snake, the feeble frog sound of his betrays the true voice.
if the frog were silent, the snake would be his prey when it retires into its corner, the barley corn and grain become treasure when the golden barley corn has become a treasure, it doesn't diminish in the earth the barley corn of the soul becomes treasure when it attains the treasure of hu.
shall i finish these words, or shall i squeeze them again?
yours is the decree what am i, gracious king?
the rock splits open in yearning to encounter you the soul beats wing and pinion in the joy of your air.
fire becomes water, reason is lain waste, my eye becomes the toe of sleep on account of you.
rending the robe of patience, reason departs out of itself your love like a dragon devours both men and stones.
do not bind the departed, do not turn laughter to weepingbe not cruel, foryour servant has none to take your place.
when your water departs to the river, how shall my discourse flow well?
sometimes my breath ceases because you are so shy.
what is the food of your love?
this roasted er of mine.
what is my ruined heart?
the workshop of your fidelity.
the jar is fermenting who will drink?
the harp sings aloud in the description and praise of you.
love entered by my door and laid a hand on my head, saw that i was without you, and said, alas for you.
i saw a difficult stage, involved and very complex i went, and now remain a heart slain by your hand at your feet.
again i am raging.
i am in such a state by your soul that every bond you bind, i break, by your soul.
i am like heaven, like the moon, like a candle by your glow i'm all reason, all love, all soul, by your soul.
my joy is of your doing, my hangover of your thorn whatever side you turn your face, i turn mine, by your soul.
i spoke in error it is not surprising to speak in error in this state, lot this moment i cannot tell cup from wine, by your soul i am that madman in bonds who binds the dibs i, the madman, am a solomon with the dibs, by your soul.
whatever form other than love raises up its head from my heart, forthwith i drive it out of the court of my heart, by your soul come, you who have departed, for the thing that departs comes back neither you are that, by my soul, nor i am that, by your soul.
disbeliever, do not conceal disbelief in your soul, for i will recite the secret of your destiny, by your soul.
out of love of theif, through wakefulness straightening, like a spinning mote i am distraught, by your soul all my six directions, beloved, are graven with your beauty, you shine in the mirror, since it has been polished by you.
the mirror sees you according to the measure of its breadth how shall the shapes of your perfection be contained in the mirror?
the sun asked your sun, when shall i see you?
it replied, i shall rise in the time of your setting.
you cannot travel freely in this direction, for like a camel your ropes, reason, have bound your knees.
how is it that reason, whose splendor is not contained in the seven heavens, entered your snare and bag, love?
this reason became one grain of the harvest of love, and all your feathers and wings became trapped by that grain.
you plunged once into the sea of the life of the all, you saw eternal spirit life, that spirit became your bane.
of what use is this reason's kingship beside the sovereignty of your love?
of what use his pomp beside your pomp and majesty?
see in the world's ears now a hundred golden rings because of the grace of your answering, out of joy of your questioning, oi raw ones who never received refined gold from your hand are happy with your stones and shards instead of gold.
a hundred skies revolve around your earth, a hundred full moons prostrate before your crescent moon.
with you our carnal soul's dog plays foxy tricks, forthe lion prostrates before your jackal.
like day and night, footless we are journeying, soul, since every moment from heaven arrives your come up.
what shall be our darkness in the presence of your light?
what our evil deeds with your beneficence?
by day we revolve about your tree like a shadow, by night till dawn we lament, secure from your wearying.
yearning for your reproach, adam came from the high seat of paradise down to your vestibule.
the heart's sea thunders and boils with your praise, but have closed my lips, yearning for your discourse.
both aware and untimely he came as my guest my heart said, who has come?
my soul said, the moon face moon.
he entered the house, we all like mad men searching for that moon gone into the midst of the street.
he was crying out from the house, i am here we, heedless of this cry, go crying everywhere.
that drunken nightingale of ours is lamenting in our rose garden, like ring doves we are flying and shouting, where, where?
at midnight a crowd leaped out saying, what?
the thief has come?
that thief also is saying, the thief has come and has the thief.
his shout became so mingled with the shout of all others that not a bit of his shouting stands out in this uproar.
and he is with yon means he is with you in this search when you are seeking, seek him too in the search.
he is nearer to you than you why go outside?
become like melting snow, wash yourself of yourself.
through love a tongue grows in the soul like a lily keep your tongue silent, imitate the trait of the lily.
from these depths depart towards heaven may your soul be happy, journey joyfully.
you have escaped from the city full of fear and trembling happily become a resident of the abode of security.
if the body's image has gone, await the image maker if the body is utterly ruined, become all soul.
if your face has become saffron pale through death, becomes dweller among tulip beds and judas trees.
if the doors of repose have been barred to you, come, depart by way of the roof and the ladder.
if you are alone from friends and companions, by the help of the all become a shorebird power of happy circumstance.
if you have been excluded from water and bread, like bread become the food of the souls, and so become.
sweetly parading you go my soul of soul, go not without me life of your friends, enter not the garden without me.
sky, revolve not without me moon, shine not without meearth travel not without me, and time, go not without me.
with you this world is joyous, and with you that world is joyous in this world dwell not without me, and to that world depart not without me.
vision, know not without me, and tongue, recite not without me glance behold not without me, and soul, go not without me.
the night through the moon's light sees its face white i am night, you are my moon, go not to heaven without me.
the thorn is secure from the fire in the shelter of the rose's grace you are the rose, i your thorn go not into the rose garden without me.
i run in the curve of your mallet when your eye is with me even so gaze upon me, drive not without me, go not without me when, joy, you are companion of the king, drink not without me when, watchman, you go to the king's roof, go not without me.
alas for him who goes on this road without your sign since you, sinless one, are my sign, go not without me.
alas for him who goes on this road without any knowledge you are the knowledge of the road for meroadrunner, go not without me.
others call you love, i call you the king of loveyou whore higher than the imagination of this and that, go not without me.
last night in sleep i dreamed yet what sleep is there for lovers?
that i was searching inside the kaabaforwhere paraphernalia might be.
the kaaba of the spirits, not that kaaba which, when you reach it on a dark night, you say, where is candle or moonlight?
nay, rather its foundations are of the light of the whole world, from which the rays of your spirit take light.
only how can the soul endure it?
its hospice is all light, its carpeting is knowledge and reason, its sufi all bewildered, where is the clatter of the shoes?
fortunate one, the crown and throne you hold hidden in you are beyond the imagination of daiquiri and san jar grandstand bird of heart, fly midst the garden of its beauty, for there is a secure abode where is snare or beatification?
there is a gift in the midst of your body's loans search in the middle of the soul for the gift of giver.
in describing from afar the discourse of time became prolix now that i have reached my penitent, where now is prolixity?
since you kitted the clay, you forthright entered the garden of the heart so from that side is there naught but concert and pure wine?
since you left the salt marsh of the body for the garden of the soul, is there naught but rose and basil, tulip and fountains of water?
since you have seen thousands of beauties that were not of body, why do you say, where is the beauty of the opener of doors?
faq, for the all's sake, learn the science of love, for after death, where are lawful, unlawful and obligatory?
when in time of pain and affliction you quickly find his door, you say once more, where is he?
where is the door of his palace?
wait till the wave of union with him snatches you away and you become unseen, then you may say, where is the world of causation?
if the script of in kawabata has become your fancy in calligraphy, read the letter of his love, and it will show you where the doorkeeper is.
beware, say not of every man that he is the all's deputy comet the court of the nazi, then see where the deputies are.
until you box your ears, you will see only men's affairs when you rub your eyes, you will say, where is his light?
in the tavern of reality, before the dissolute drunkards, in such a pure wine you will not see where lees and straw are and secondary causes.
in the mortal reckoning your life has been wasted without reckoning behold the purity of the beloved where is the similitude of the reckons?
when the wine makes you brave and you plunge into theses of the heart, you will strike up this melody where is the bottom of this sea?
happy the moment when we, you and i, sit in the palace, with two forms and two figures but with one soul, you and i. the beauty of the garden and the birdsong will confer upon us the water of life at that time when we enter the garden, you and i. the stars of heaven will come to gaze on us we shall show them the moon itself, you and i. you and i, unselfish, will be collected together in ecstasy, joyful, and indifferent to idle fable, you and i. the parrots of heaven will all be sugar cracking in the place where we laugh in such wise, you and i. this is still more amazing, that you and i here in one cornering this very moment are in iraq and khorana, you and i. in one form upon this earth, and in another form in eternal paradise and the land of sugar, you and i. you who have made the lovers'whole baggage a wager, donor shed the blood of these lovers, and do not depart.
see the traces of blood at the top of the road, hear the bloody cry coming from all sides.
i said to this heart, see his mallet if you are a ball, run into this mallet.
the heart said, in the curve of his mallet i have become old and new a hundred thousand times.
how should the ball of the heart hide from the mallet?
morin this desert there is neither well nor ditch.
the cat of the soul is the sneeze of the lion of eternity the lion trembles when the cat mews.
this is the gold of the mine of bosssearch it grainy grain, it is all pure.
sit with your comrades, do not go to sleep do not go to the bottom of the sea like a fish.
be surging all night like the sea no, do not go scattered likes torrent.
is not the water of life in darkness?
seek in darkness, and donor hurry away.
the nightmares of heaven are full of light you too, go not away from the company of your companions.
is not the wakeful candle in a golden dish?
go not into earth like quicksilver.
the moon shows its face to the night travelers be watchful, on the night of moonshine do not go.
i went to the master's street and said, where is the master?
they said, the master is a lover and is drunk and wandering from street to street.
i said, i have a duty, at least you give me a clue after all, ian the master's friend, not an enemy.
they said, the master has fallen in love with that gardener seek him in the garden or beside the stream.
drunkards and lovers go after their beloved if a man has fallen in love, go and wash your hands from him.
the fish that has known water remains not on land how should a lover stay in the sphere of color and scent?
the frozen snow that has seen the face of yon sun is devoured by the sun, though it be heap on heap.
especially he who is in love with our king, a king peerless, faithful, sweet tempered any copper which that infinite, immeasurable, incomparable alchemy touches becomes gold at the word return.
sleep away from the world, and flee from the six directions how long will you foolishly wander and roam hither and thither?
eventually in the end they will bring you of your own choice, go with glory and honor before the king.
lad there not been a meddler in the midst, jesus would have revealed the mystery line by line.
i have closed the road of the mouth and opened the secret way i have escaped by one cup of wine from the frenzy of speech i am not satiated, not satiated with your laughing lips thousand blessings on your lips and teeth.
has any man ever wearied, my son, of his soul?
you are my soul since my soul and yours are one and the same.
i am thirsty and suffering from dropsy, my death and life are from water pass around the cup, for i am the slave of your turning around.
you make dispensation, go offer me to yourself that my headman raise itself up from your shirt.
though my two hands are wounded, my hand belongs to you of what use are my hands without your breath and incantation?
your love said, sir, come into my private chamber, that no thief may make designs on your inner chamber.
i said, blessed one, i have become a ring on this door so that no thought of me may trouble your doorkeeper.
he said, you are both standing at the door and in my bosom, exterior and interior both homelands are yours.
silence, and recite no more sufficient should be this hospitality and table.
for all eternity rum and turk shall eat of your table the light of my heart is your lovely face, my wings and pinions your gentleness festival and ‘arafat are your laughter, my musk and rose are your sweet scent.
my sign is the disc of your moon, my place of shade your lovely hair.
my prostration place is the dust of your door, my leaping place your delightful street.
my heart goes not to others, since it has gone in your sweet direction even if my heart goes to others, your sweet person will draw it back.
my intoxication is of your being, my plunging place your sweet river.
i have become like gold from your silvery bosom, i have become single through your sweet fold.
i lay my head and how should not your sweet ball lay down its head before your mallet?
i will be silent, silent, since my clamoring is shattered by your sweet cry.
come, beat the drum of fidelity, for your hour has come give wine red as the judas flowers, for your judas tree has blossomed.
let us press new wine from the sweet grapes of your garden, let us scatter fruits from your lusty young tree.
drive not soul and reason from the table of your bounty what do two or three flies consume to diminish the plenty of your table?
the desire of all the desirous is but one grain of your harvest the two worlds are but two small townships in your world.
if all day the sun strikes the sword of light, it becomes less than a more before your terrible lance.
since the soul of heaven kisses the earth before you, on what wing shall earth fly towards your heaven?
it sits with broken wings, gazing towards you, for in that same moment there arrives to it the succor of your present.
no night nor dawn tide has passed in the world, in which my breath has not been set afire by the threat of your watchman did you not make a promise to me?
did you not swear an oath, that at the time of my going up your ladder should arrive?
when you gaze on your servant with that narcissus eye, his soul flies from the place to your gracelessness you cherish him saying, sorrowful one, do not grieve henceforward, for heaven itself has thundered with your loud lamentation i am more compassionate in cherishing than mother and father it was to mature you that your trial occurred.
i will make a garden, a paradise, a cure out of your pain out of your smoke i will fashion a new heaven better than this.
i have spoken all, yet i have not spoken the root of the matter, beloved, for it is better that men should hear your secret from your own mouth.
saki of the moon face, circulate the cup, deer me out of shame and name.
saki, i am a prisoner in your snare, for you have laid at every step a snare.
have done with sloth, seize me.
be not slothful, for the tribe has departed.
is not sobriety the alighting place of every care?
is not joy banned in anxiety?
fast, for fasting is great gain the faster drinks the wine of the spirit it is in tradition that whoever keeps the fast sees the moon of the all in the evening time.
it is not just that when i enter by the door, you should flee from me by the roofyou flee and i crying after you, be patient one moment, fleet of pace.
muslims, mosley, what remedy is there?
for i am consumed with fire, and yet this business is unsettled.
there is no remedy but pure wine in cups which noblemen have circulated.
the tale of lovers has no end, so we will be satisfied with this, and so farewell.
the answer of mutability saying is this a heart which wine cannot console.
there are a few dissolute this side, hidden in the shade of the heart, and yonder sun shines from the roof of the heart upon their souls every star became a venus, every mote a sun, sun and stars before them spinning like motes.
reason and heart, gone astray, have carried all the souls to heaven every one of them has become a kitakyushu and aching without parasol and standard.
you have slain many a mount and gone around the world journey into your soul, and behold a people become altogether soul with this divine benefaction, with this beauty and loveliness, see the command worshipers absorbed in the command.
their hearts are as mirrors, those rancor less hearts of their their hearts like the field of the skies, a king entering the field.
through their jubilees and ululations, their back scratching, dessert and wine and that other thing have become cheapen our town.
if i were unselfish as last night and thought not of the disturbance, unselfish i would have spoken the rest of this but lot now i close my mouth, because i am in pawn to myself, till the time when my heart has become drunk with him.
king of the kings of the soul, the stag through him every soul has become a sea, everybody a coral.
lovers, lovers, i am mad where is the chain?
chain rattler of the soul, your clamor fills the world.
you have forged another chain and flung it upon my neckline you have galloped from heaven to waylay the caravan.
rise, soul, from the world, fly from earth and earth's plot for our sake this torch is revolving in heaven.
he who is pained at heart, how shall his way be barred brain and mud?
that man is quit of love for whom mountain hasn't become a mustard grain.
one day a hermaphrodite cried, saying, wicked shepherd, why, that goat is biting me, he looked at me from the flock the shepherd said, he bites the hermaphrodite and perhaps slays him underfoot, but should that trouble a real man?
you have spoken well, said the other.
where is your reason, if you speak?
where your tooth to go running, to go from dry land to sea and become secure from the earthquake?
then you will become king of kings, enter the eternal kingdom, rise higher than the heaven, depart from this dunghillactive like the universal reason, surging like a sea of honey, like the sun in aries, like the moon in virgo.
a hundred crows and owls and doves are making melody in your ears if only this clamor were less, you would hear the sounds of the heart.
if you are a man of heart, become without heart if you have reason, become mad, forthis partial reason is a the eye of your love, so that the unseen form may arrive and draw you out of form for this problem has become difficult through its tangled locks.
but on this road you must trail the skirt of joy because the stage is drenched with lovers'blood.
go, go, heart, with the caravan go not alone on the stage because this pregnant age is giving birth to troubles there you will be freed from pains, and go in the protection of the all go in the sea like a skiff.
heart, you have gone go without complaining.
when you have removed heart from soul, you have escaped from war and peace you have become free and unconcerned with both shop and grain.
your soul has escaped from anxiety, the road to danger sis barred he who is attached to you, is always in forty day seclusion since by day you have become secure from this uproarious the master, by night too do not worry about this jangling izanagi be silent, sweet of presence saki, bind up your water skin, because the waves are not contained in pitcher and flagon.
happy cheeked saki of mine, give the cup like pomegranate blossom if for my sake you will not give for the sake of the heart of the beloved.
saki, you are the darling, you are the sick man's cure quick, give the draft of gladness and healing to the sick.
pour wine out in this bowl, smite the neck of anxiety now, do not break my heart, my heart and sweetheart, and give.
open that tavern, abandon this rowdiness give to the thirst stricken lover from the vintner's vat.
you are the soul of spring and garden, the glory of cypress and jasmine now make no excuses, roguish idol, but give.
when you set foot on trickery and start away from the drunkards'hands our enemy will rejoice despite strangers, give.
give not grief and sighing, open the way only to joy a sigh proceeds from the way less open the way give audience.
we are all intoxicated of the encounter, athirst for the bumper of immortality as pawns, give robe and turban before the saki.
i am athirst of old, hot of heart and breast break the beaker and cup, give much, without measure.
you are both moon and moonshine, i am the fish of this water the moon cannot reach the fish, so give generously of the moonshine i am seeing a moon outside the eye in the eye, which neither eye has seen nor ear heard of.
i do not see tongue and soul and heart save without myself, from that moment that i stole a glance at that cheek.
had plato seen the loveliness and beauty of that moon, he would have become even madder and more distressed than i. eternity is the mirror of the temporal, the temporal the mirror of per eternity in this mirror those two are twisted together like his tresses.
a cloud beyond the senses whose rain is all spirit sprinkling on the dust of the body what rains he has rained.
the moon face ones of heaven, seeing the picture of his face, have become ashamed before that beauty and scratched the back of their necks.
post eternity took the hand of eternity and took it towards the palace of that moon having seen both, it laughed in jealous pride at the two.
about and around his palace what lions there are, roaring jealousy, aiming at the blood of the self sacrificing, adventurous men.
suddenly the word jumped from my mouth, who is thatching?
the pines king of and at those words my blood surged.
undaunted you are coming from my breast into my sight, chanting a potent spell and confused stories.
with one breath you bring into whirling the heavens and firmament what would one rotting perception be before your spell?
you wash away the sins of both worlds at a single penitence why have you tightened my slip around your finger?
you have a job in every corner, a jacob on every side love has broken their door and stolen their clothes from the house.
parade fourth to the cemetery and in that garden proclaim, rise, ancient dead, dance, crumbled body.
at once the whole cemetery becomes populated like a city, all dancing, all happy, fate turning back from all.
i do not boast of this at random, i am not weaving a fantasy i have seen this a hundred ways, i am not speaking of what have not seen.
if anyone says, i have fled from the people, i have gone, say, he speaks the truth if his shirt is torn from behind.
be silent listen, speaker, to the sorrow of the beloved with the lover the object of the quest is obstinate, so long as sequester is a seeker.
suddenly, having eaten nothing and taken away nothing, fell from the garden palace and pavilion into the depths of such well.
the world was no festival for me i beheld its ugliness, that yellow wanton puts rouge on her face.
how does rouge beautify that thorn of evil root?
that thorn which has sunk into every er and kidney?
she came, that blind crone, with a crown of roses, her black ribbon let loose, having blackened her eyebrows with indigo.
look not at her anklets, regard her black legs puppetry is very pretty when behind a screen.
go, wash your hands of her, sufi of well washed face shave your heart of her, man of the shaven head.
unlucky and heavy of soul is he who seeks fortune from here is gone in bondage to greatness, and burns like a chip.
come to our aid, beloved, amongst the heavy hearted, you who brought us into this wheel out of nonexistence.
silence.
speak only of that infinite one of sweet breath howling will you make discourse of these numbered breaths?
do you whose soul had informed my soul of itself, your thought every moment has made an impression on your slave.
whatever you think whatever enters your mind, that same instant that thing passes into your servant's mind.
my soul has become occupied with your graceful airs your guile in secret has wrought another thing.
every morn the reed laments, remembering your lip your love fills the mouth of the reed with candy and sugar.
because of your moon like face and your stature and waist, this soul of mine has made itself like the new moon.
when i make myself like a belt, perhaps you will come to my waist, you whose eye you have fixed on me in wrath.
in wrath you gazed and turned my heart upside down, so that this wandering heart journeyed out of itself.
that stranger beloved of mine has returned to the housetoday gaze about and behold strange forms.
see the faithful friends, see the brethren of purity, dancing because that treasure has returned to the ruin.
eye, behold the garden ear, gather the words, open your sweet lips, beloved of fair legend.
saki today unsparingly pour the immortal wine what does the sea diminish through those two or three measures?
measure and measure in wine is not duality, if you want it to become one, break the two measures.
am a falcon of the hunt, beloved, do not keep me in bonds will be no more like an owl in a ruin.
i am not content with you, patience has strayed from my heart go, speak to another, i will not listen to your fable.
i am a grain of the skies, fora while i am in this earth when the justice of spring comes the grain becomes green.
you are the bane of birds of that grain which you know, you scatter a handful from a garner full of grain.
you who have given me luster a hundredfold like the bluesy, beloved, answer frankly, is this so or not?
beloved, once more shake the chain and from afar gaze upon the madmen.
this is the very rose bower of fortune, power, what a tree is this.
a hundred drunken nightingales every moment make their nest here.
the soul comes, being dragged by the ear the heart comes to the lovely ones, because spring has come and that stranger december has gone.
every day is festival and friday for the poor has not yesterday's friday become an ancient festival?
soul, robed in festive garb like the festival moon, made of the light of the beauty of yourself, not of woolen frocklike reason and faith sweet outside and inside, not garlic stuffed in the heart of a walnut sweet put on such a frock and go about in this ring, like the heart clear and bright in the vestibule of the heart.
on a running river, soul, how shall a straw stand still?
how can rancor make its dwelling in the soul and spirit?
in the eye of sanctity these words are a branch new and fresh in the eye of sensual perception, they are like an ancient legend.
formless beloved of the pure fashioner, you who have given the cup full of tumult to the lovers, you have closed your mouth against uttering secrets, and opened in the heart the door which i do not mention.
since your beauty secretly cast off the veil, heart has gone after saki and head after wine.
in the morning when your image drove forth riding, holy spirits, as numerous as the sands, followed on foot and those who are famous in heaven for their adoration broke their rosaries and pawned their prayer rugs.
the soul cannot endure to gaze on your face unveiled your beauty exceeds all that i say.
my soul runs after you like a raging camel my body is a collar bound upon the neck of that camel.
the stag, my heart is pregnant by you when shall i see a child born under your auspices?
the dissolute are all assembled in the marian monastery give one bumper to that unique elder.
the blood shedding master, love, has seized door and roof, and reason is fugitive from house to house.
that most mighty beauty flung aside one veil, and all the people of the time departed out of the veil.
the same is with the lovers who fell into this sea what places there for safety and security?
how shall love grow cold from the voice of reproach?
a lion never runs from a woman's scream.
fill the bumper with the divine wine, leave not the the alls of nature standing in the midst.
first give that bumper to the talkative soul, so that its speaking faculty may not utter any more legends.
once speech is blocked, a torrent will come so that you will see not one sign left of beings and places.
what a fire the stag has kindled.
brave, fire, congratulations, flames.
this midnight who has come like moonshine?
it is the messenger of love, coming from the prayer niche bringing a torch, he has set fire to sleep he has come from the presence of the sleepy king.
who is this who has started all this tumult in the city, who came upon the harvest of the dervish like a flood?
who is this?
say, for in all the world there is none but he, aching came to the door of the house of a doorkeeper.
who is this who has spread such a table of bounty, who has come laughing, to lead the companions to the table?
a cup is in his hand which makes an end of the dervish from that grape juice the color stains his lips.
hearts are trembling, all souls impatient one fraction of that trembling has fallen upon quicksilver.
that gentleness and grace with which he treats his servant is the same gentleness and grace which make the ermine.
of that lament and those tears which are the dry and wet of love, one gentle melody has reached the waterwheel.
a bunch of keys is under love's armpit, come to open all the gates bird of the heart, if the hunter has broken your wings, yet the bird escapes from the snare when it is beaten and broken dead.
silence.
embodied similitude are not mannerly, or manner shave never entered your ear.
as it is late and raining, to home, to home.
welcome, all friends, to home, to home.
how long like owls banished about the ruins?
to home, to home.
lighthearted companions, haste, despite all the blind ones, to home, to home.
you reasonable, sober, full of sorrow, do not disturb our hearts.
to home, to home.
how long this love play with devil's forms, calling them hawk man?
to home, to home.
you have seen the grain and not seen the harvest even so are ants, to home, to home.
make not how and why friend, leave grazing to cattle, to home, to home.
in that house is the concert of the circumcision feast, with the ritually pure, to home, to home.
the master has built a home for the naked to home, to home.
your heart has become like granite rock, and what can redone with granite rock?
what can glass do with granite rock, except become shattered to pieces.
you laugh like the true dawn that the star may yield its life before you.
since love opened its bosom, thought has fled into boundary when patience perceived that flight, it too escaped onshore patience and reason are gone passion remained, weeping and in a fever.
some men, being separated from your wine, are fallen on the road like drugs through their ers have turned to blood, yet they are nimble and reckless on this path.
because of this business we have become strangers to reason and to the busybody heart.
love is the reality of command poetry is the drum of indication beware, for our prince is galloping, every morning he is on arid leave this theme of loneliness and separation, out of terror of which descriptive language breaks.
the imam has fled muezzin, be silent, descend from the minaret what is this hurricane blowing along from heaven?
hundreds of thousands of ships staggering and reeling before it.
the ship escapes through the wind and is sunk by the wind by the wind it is given life and is done to death.
the wind in the all's command is like the breath in yours by your command brought to cursing or reciting praises.
know that the winds are various as fanned by the fan of predestination by the zephyr the world is prosperous, by the pestilence it is reduced to a waste.
power, you have shown the wind, do not hide the fan to seethe fan is the lamp of the breast of the pure ones.
whoever sees it as a secondary cause is surely a form worshiper whoever sees it as cause has become the reality knowing light.
the people of form give their es for the desire of a bead to the eyes of people of the sea of reality, pearls have become cheap the imitator, the dust of true men, transmits reports from them the others keep silence, concealed behind them the seeker kept his eye to the path and picked up chippings see that chipping of the road has now entered thymine we tremble over our faith as a mother over her child of what should that clever one tremble who has become entirely faith?
like a moon you are waning in the desire for leadership lemme see you like a sun, become a king without retinue.
how long will you say that smoke is a proof of fire?
silence.
let me see you become without smoke both fire and proof.
say how long heaven has turned and goes on turning over your head let me see you like messiah gone above heaven.
you who seek a portion from me bring this and that.
let me see you escape from this and that, and become that and that enough brawling drunkard, chattering talker, let me see you become silent speaking like the pan of the balance.
ha, to and enter the sea do not look on from afar, forthe pearl is in the depths of the sea, the foam on the shore.
when you have seen the face of the king, go forth from the house like a pawn when you have seen the face of the sun, become lost like a star.
when by that slave cherishing you have become pure and man of prayer, invite all like the muezzin from the minaret.
gaze on this moon through which your heart has become bright, look upon this king who has arrived on horseback.
i will not fear and tremble when he draws the dagger of omnipotence by the all i will give his dagger a bribe and a portion.
what water is there that matches his grace?
for he produces two hundred fountains from the breast of marble and rock all day you dance for vermicelli and porridge what do you know of the desire of the heartforthis verse and song?
since i saw his silvery breast i flee from silver and gold, for his breeze fleas away from the hand that counts silver.
you have no fruit because you are light laden like the willow you have nothing of that business because you have become flapjack all trades all the pilgrims have gone to the sanctuary and seen the kaaba you have not even bought a camel with a broken bridle.
look at your companions, all drunk and dissolute be silent, and become likewise, you brawler.
give that spirited wine, for we are all in such a state that we cannot tell wine from cup, head from foot.
we are all fresher than the lily and the rose branch, become entirely spirit and spiritual glow.
all men are in the bond of passion, and passion is our slave, for we have all escaped from this cycle of time.
like the reed pipe we make voice at the sugar lip of the beloved we sell the shop for we are all mine.
the light of the sun devours our bodies like a shadow, for inform we are like being and space.
our faces are saffron pale out of fear for the evil eye we are companions of the garden and tulip bed we bring the koran and swear an oath to the saki but from your hand and palm we will not take wine.
whoever has a soul catches the scent of the rose garden of the soul whoever has that realizes we are all that.
our hearts are free of care like the heart of a bird, for we are lighthearted for that heavy cup.
kings yield up their crowns of gold in love for our path, fore are more belt bestowing than youthful fortune.
seek our souls in the front line of battle, for we go forward like arrow and lance.
we do not sit behind the veil of the shadows of mankind, for like the light of dawn we all tear veils apart.
we were evening, through the sun of the world we have become morning we were wolves, now we are famous shepherds.
since bossdisplayed his soul adorning cheek, wear running like the spirit towards him with heart and soul.
soul, who is that standing in the house of the heart?
who may be on the royal throne but the king and the prince?
he signaled with his hand, tell me, what do you want of me?
what does a drunken man desire but sweetmeats and cup of wine?
sweetmeats hanging from the heart, a cup of pure light, an eternal banquet laid in the privacy of he is the truth.
how many deceivers there are at the wine drinkers'feast.
beware, lest you fall, soft and simple man.
in the circle of reprobates beware lest you be eye shut like the bud, mouth open like the rose.
the world is like a mirror, the image of the perfection of love men, who has ever seen a part greater than the whole?
go on foot like the grass, for in this rose garden the beloved like a rose is riding all the rest are on foot.
he is both sword and swordsman, both slain and slayer, all reason, and giving reason to the mind.
that king is salas aldrin may he endure forever, may his bountiful hand be perpetually a necklace on my neck.
i saw my sweetheart wandering about the house he had taken a rebel and was playing a melody.
with a plectrum like fire he was playing a sweet melody, drunken and dissolute and charming from the imagine he was invoking the saki in the air of iraq the wine was his object, the saki was his excuse.
the moon faced saki, pitcher in his hand, entered from a corner and set it in the middle.
he filled the first cup with that flaming wine did you oversee water sending out flames?
he set it on his hand for the sake of the lovers, then prostrated and kissed the threshold.
my sweetheart seized it from him and quaffed the wine flames from that wine went running over his face.
he was beholding his own beauty, and saying to the evil eye, never has there been, nor shall there come in this age, another like me.
i am sprung from you and likewise you have devoured me, melt in you since through you i froze.
now you press me in your hand, now under your foot with grief for the grape does not become wine until it impressed like the light of the sun, you have cast us on the earth, then little by little carried us back in that direction.
we return from the body's window like light into the orb oaf sun, pure of sin and blemish.
whoever sees that orb says, he has become an exit, and whoever comes to the window says, grandson is dead.
he has veiled our origin in that cup of pain and joy in the core of origin we are pure, all the rest left behind like dregs.
source of the source of souls, bossqiqihar, hundred ers are on fire for you so how many kidneys?
the sun has risen from the depths of the water, heard from every smoke.
why speak of smoke?
when the sun of the soul arrived, they robbed from the sun its very cloak and cap.
the moon of the heart like adam has emerged from water and clay, and a hundred suns like joseph are going down into the well.
lift a head from the earth, for you are not less than an ant carry to the ants the tidings of the plain and threshing floor.
the ant was satisfied with that rotted grain because it wasn't aware of our verdant ear of corn.
say to the ant, it is springtime, and you have hands and feet why do you not make your way from the tomb to the open land?
why speak of ants?
solomon has rent the robe of yearning punish me not, the all, for this useless image.
but they cut a gown to fit the purchaser's figure though the garment is long, the stature is short.
bring a long stature, that we may cut a gown before whose length the moon's bowstring is broken.
i keep silence hereafter, that through my silence truth and falsehood may be separated as grain from chaff.
since i am intoxicated with your face, learned sage, gaze one with those intoxicated eyes.
through your intoxicated eyes my heart writhes (for it is mad) drunkard and madman have a liking for each other's ways see my wasted heart and look fondly on me, for the sun gazes fondly upon ruins.
go gaze, so that, by that one gaze which you gaze, marvelous trees will emerge from a single seed.
your two eyes are antiperspirant and drunk and blood spilling the persian shoots turkish arrows.
they have so plundered me and the house of the heart, athabaskan is running with naked feet in the house.
we will come into the garden of your face and break up the house we will manfully turn a thousand houses into desert salas aldrin, you are as the moon and have no need of this description, even as the trees tip of hawk man needs no comb.
for a moment lay your cheek on the cheek of this drunkard, for a moment put behind your war and cruelty.
if it be hard, i bring out silver in my hand put in this hand wine like gold.
you who have opened the doors of the seven heavens, lay the hand of generosity on my fettered heart.
all i have to offer is not being give the nickname of being tony not being you are both breaker and binder of the broken lay the balm of the soul on my broken head.
do not put a seal on that sugar and pistachio nut lay everlasting love upon this servant.
i have told you times, heart do not hunt, put your foot in this net.
circumnavigating about your moon, the moon and sky and jupiter, the sun and hoop like sphere come into your spherepower, am i seeking you or are you seeking me?
my shame.
so long as i am, i am one and you are another suspending us and me, shedding the blood of both, raising up something else, neither of man nor peri.
let toot not remain, for foot carries us to the thorn bushlet head not remain, for the head becomes infidel through hotheadedness one water flowing midst the stream, one water frozen on the bank of the stream the former swift, the latter sluggish beware, swift one, lest you congeal.
the sun says to the stone, for this reason i shone on your stone, that you might escape from stoniness and set loot monkshood the sun of eternal love has shone in your heart first, that your servant hood might increase, and lastly, that you might show mastery.
the sun says to the unripe grape, i have come to your kitchen so that you may not sell vinegar anymore but make trade of sweet making the king says to the falcon, i bound up your eyes so that you may break with your own kind and only regard my face.
the falcon says, yes, i am obedient only on your beauty gaze, only by your image i pass, and serve you with my soul the rose says to the garden, i displayed my robes so that you might sell all your wares and make do with me.
he who takes gold from here and makes do with another beloved sit awry and say truly, what is that from?
freakishness that is a man who gives up the ass to buy jesus it is of waspishness that you give up jesus to buy the ass.
jesus turns the drunkard into gold, and if he be gold, make shim into a jewel if a jewel, he makes him better still, better than the moon and jupiter.
you are not a jupiter without worth, but the light of the all has purchased if you have anything of joseph, you take the scent of this shirt.
to me, as to mary, dates come forth from a withered branch without cause to me, like jesus, master ship comes unasked in the cradle.
see the grapes without garden and vine, the light without day and night this glorious fortune, given by the all without the process of judgment.
through my fire like face the world's bath became hot like children weep less for a picture painted on the bathhouse wall.
tomorrow you will see its face become food for snake and mouse, those narcissus eyes a gateway of ants.
you are the moonshine driven to the moon, the wall left dark to him we return has come true look yonder, if toucan see.
or go to, enjoy the mistress, or believe the words of the truthful describers.
beware, joseph of the fair name, come not on the road without a fellow traveler break not away from the jacob of wisdom lest you fall into a well.
he is a dog who sleeps idly before every door and he is amass who comes helplessly to every tent.
see from what side this love and envy enter the breast do you know who informs the heart but a heartstrings?
wait like a bird guardian over the egg, for from the breast's egg will be born drunkenness and union and laughter.
only he has a skirt all are beggars, uncle clutch with both your hands his royal skirt.
like the sun go in griefforhim into the fire till night when it is night, gently turn about his roof like the moon.
on his roof these stars are keeping watch till dawn by allah, what a blessed presence, what an imperial court.
those prophets who even in the earth turned their faces to heaven escaped from the snare of earth and the company of every fool they were snatched by that side like iron by a magnet, like straw which flies without wings to amber.
know that without his sending down no provision grows in the earth, without the society of his guiding form no substance can come into being.
the spirits are excited like camels by the cry, travel.
likes bedouin he cries, forward.
to those camels.
on the table of the heart the soothsayer casts the sand divination realities, so that through his figures the sand has become fine gold and pure.
go more gaily, fellow travelers, for a physician has come into the world who brings to life every dead one, gives sight to all who are blind.
all these things come to pass but when his face lifts the veil, no venus or melody remains, no woe, woe to the mourner.
be silent, if you are a nightingale, go, fly back to the rosebush the ball goes to the thorn bed, but only rarely, from time to time.
before this i sought a purchaser for my discourse, and now wish of you to buy me from my words.
i have carved idols enough to beguile every person now ian drunk with abraham, i am sated with alar.
an idol without color and scent arrived my hand was putout of action by him.
seek another masterforthe shop of idol making i have cleared the shop of myself, i have thrown away the tools having realized the worth of madness, i have become free of thoughts.
if an image enters my heart i say, depart, you who lead astray.
if it displays grossness, i destroy its composition.
who is suitable for lilia?
he who becomes maj nun for her.
that man is at the foot of the flag whose soul is on the other side do not fling stones at the factory of glass making, do not strike anew the wounded heart of the brokenhearted.
strike all at my heart, for it is a pity and stupidity for your blows and stones to strike anther's breast and soul.
free all the captives of cruelty save me, that on your servant you may look with cruelty.
i am happy whether you are faithful or cruel may i never journey without you, either in fidelity or cruelty.
if your image has not entered the eye of a particular man, the eye of a slain ibex is dark and gazes wildly.
before the world's prison i was with you wholly would that i had never passed by this place of snares.
how often i have said, i am happy.
i will not go on a journey see this hard journey, the road from the heights to the earth your grace deluded me, saying go, do not be afraid my generosity shall be your escort, there shall be no danger to you when you go into strange lands, you will have time to become mature then you will return to your homeland with learning and accomplishment.
i said, soul of mine, what information shall i gain without you?
who goes from you for the sake of information?
only the uninformed.
when i quaff wine from your hand, i am unaware and drunk and happy, without danger and fear of anyone, untroubled by any man.
he spoke words in my ear like the words of highwaymen the king rolled me off my head, he bewitched me.
the story is long indeed alas for the cunning and deceit, if this night his generosity does not show us any dawn.
you have come in order to expound my secret to all, to reveal and indicate that sinless king.
last night your drunken fantasy came cup in hand.
i said, will not drink wine it said, do not, the more loss to you.
i said, i fear if i drink, shame will fly from my head i will reach out to your curls, and you will withdraw from me.
it saw that i was making airs and said, come, it is astonishing that when someone offers you his soul, you should frown on him.
with all you are deceit and cheating with the like of me would you be the cheat too?
i am the provost of secrets do you hide a secret from me?
i am the treasure of the heart of earth why do you lay your head on the earth?
i am the fibula of heaven why do you turn your face to heaven?
look at the king who gives you the light of vision if you angrily turn your head away, you will do the same on the day of death be pale of cheek for him who gave you the color of your cheeks why do you saffron your face for the sake of a shadow?
be like a cock, time aware and leader it would be a pity to make your cock into a hen.
io sit crookedly but tell the truth truth has its reward.
i amour soul and spirit do you depart to another?
if like lend, you lend the all a clipping, you will turn half clipping of counterfeit into a treasure and mine and iffortwo or three days you bandage your eyes with lear the all, you will make the fountain of your sensible eye into sea of the pearl of vision.
if for a moment you go straight as an arrow at my target, you will make the shaft of the arrow of heaven a bow for your string is there any generosity better than this, that with your sin and guilt i should expound how you should lament before me?
enough for those words which will be written are not contained in the mouth if you were to open every atom, you could make a mouth.
the sand has become satiated with the water i have not become, bravo.
no string in this world is there to fit my longbow.
the sea is my least draft, the mountain my least morsel what's leviathan i am.
the all.
open for me a way.
i am more thirsty than death, i write like hell is not any good fat morsel coming to me, i wonder?
the lean one of love has no remedy but union none is the rebut your hand to feed grass to the mouth of love reason enters your trap and loses both head and beard, though it be heavy headed or swift to leap.
you are the implanted of sincerity in the heart of every unitarian you likewise print images in the heart of every anthropomorphism noah from the zenith of your wave becomes mate of a raft spirit from the scent of your street is drunk and dissolute and distraught be silent, and return to the palace of the silent ones you, casting a village, return to the city of love.
restless heart of mine, say, of what substance are you?
office?
of water?
of man?
of per?
from what direction have you come?
on what food pastured?
what have you seen in nonexistence?
why are you flying thither?
why do you uproot me?
why aim at my destruction?
why cut the road of wisdom?
why tear your own veil?
all animals and ing beings are wary of nothingness except you, who are carrying your baggage into nonentity.
you are going hot and hurrying, drunk, dissolute, to whose counsel would you hearken?
how long will you fall for the coquetry of men?
you are a torrent flowing, flowing from the mountaintop of this world towards the sea of no place, faster than my breath.
garden and spring are bewildered to know by what breeze you blow lily and cypress are intoxicated with you what a rose, what a narcissus you are.
the music of the tambourine whose hoop is not accompanied by tinkling cymbals, like the ravings of an unbeliever, enters not our ears.
the moses of your love said to me become untouchable how do i not flee from all?
how not run away from the samaritan?
i have fled from all, though i am in the midst of men, as theatrical gold coin is in the midst of the earth of the mine.
though the gold cries out two thousand times, i am gold, till it leaves the mine, no one will purchase it.
do not heap snow on yourself, lest you congeal your snow will make you congeal even though you be the furnace of fire.
he who does not ferment of himself destroys your ferment and he who kindles no fire, brotherhood does not come from him look for his fatness with your hand, be not deceived by his wool don't look at his head and mustaches, his soul is lean.
if this melody is joyful, leap up and advance ardently donor make your head grandson, do not listen slackly and superficially.
i would have shown my face to you if i were not wholly soul the sign of me would have been seen were i not without sign silver of bosom, am i not gold?
ruby of lips, am i not jewel?
i would have shown my gold essence were i not in the mine.
your grace does not let me, else i would drive away all the people of the world in desire of you, sugar, like a fly.
the rosebush of the soul said to your love, did i not fear, would be all tongue like the lily.
men say, you are a reasonable man, for a moment come to yourself i reply, if i were like this, for a moment i would be like that.
if the silver robed moon were worthy of your street, i would take him by the waist and draw him along to you.
if the wave of passion for your love let me be for a moment, would extinguish all fires and be the salvation of lovers if he had not sewed up my eye of time with the arrow of jealousy, i would be openly and visibly like a bow in his hand.
this is a symbol and antonym for and bossdinah, how would it be if i had been an interpreter before him.
passion for that beloved brought me out of learning and reciting so that i became mad and distracted.
once i took my way earnestly to prayer rug and mosque put on the shirt of abstinence to increase good works.
love entered the mosque and said, right guided master, rend the bond of being why are you in bondage to prayer?
let not your heart tremble before the blow of my sword lay down your neck, if you wish to journey from knowledge to vision do full justice to ruffianism, if you are a dissolute and drunkard if you are lovely and beautiful, why do you remain behind the veil?
lovely ones may not flee from exhibiting their features how can idols suffer not to indulge in coquetry and face decoration?
now through your face you have bestowed love and impatience on reason, now through your eyes played the messiah to the sicknow with your tresses given the image of the all's cord to the believer, now through twisted curls given a cross to the christian.
if you have beheld your beauty which excels the sun, why have you withered and decayed in this dusty prison?
why do you not become refreshed by the graces of the heart's springtime?
why do you not laugh like the rose and pound ambergris?
why do you not ferment like wine in the vat of this world, that the fermenting may bring you forth from this enameled lid?
why is your jacob denied the lighting of your lovely face?
joseph of the lovely ones, why do you languish in the bottom of the well?
behold your own beauty, ignorant one, in the light of the souls of the pegs \autos\, for the believer is the mirror of the believer in time of loneliness.
the earth sees its secrets in the face of the garden, ‘what through its beauty and charm i have in my heart.
'the rock sees its secret in the ruby and turquoise, ‘i have treasure in my heart yearning to emerge.
'the dark iron sees its heart in the mirror, ‘i am recipient tonight, after all things bright.
'when nonentities see how nonentities have been changed, they come into existence to enjoy a meeting.
would the fly have gone around to every dunghill had it known that by effort and virtue the ‘ana comes out of its composition?
when the sufi has become ‘son of the moment, 'he doesn't become an idle person tomorrow that person soon becomes idle who is a fool and a procrastinator.
sit among sweethearts if you are not immature and impotent use yourself to lovers, my friend, do not wander about everywhere fish, it has become certain to you from the sea behind your back turn your face round and go back, since you are a sea creature hear the call of return, go to the water of life enter theater and go gaily, why do you linger in water and clay?
with heart and soul you have gone to a place where neither soul nor heart remain on your own foot you have gone to palace where you bite your own hand.
become gold through the sun of eternity go not to anther's gold, for love of gold makes you yellow, though your face is silvery.
the world says to you, ‘why have you become my slave?
after all you are born of the king, it is i who should be your slave.
'the sea says to you, ‘i shall be your steed, rather than that you should be my steed, acting as porter and water carrier be silent, i was like you too, but i kept silence and found rest if you listen to me, you will be silent too, and find rest.
today the king in secret visited the madmen a shout went up from the souls of the spiritual distracted ones.
amid the cries that king recognized my voice, for my voice had become purified of animal breaths.
he signaled so royally that the madman leaped from his bonds if i am mad, king, you are the solomon of the divs.
king, you share the secrets of the birds and the spells of the dibs now if it is fitting you should recite a spell on this madman.
an elder approached the king saying, bind him in chains, for this madman is causing enough disturbance and disorder in the twin.
my king said, this madman will accept no chain other than the chain of my trees you do not know his character.
he bursts thousands of bonds to fly to my hand to us returning he becomes, for he is a royal falcon.
there entered the city of man a mighty torrent the heavens were destroyed, and a waterwheel of pure light was set turning.
that city was simply madness, mankind therein distractedfor he had escaped from yesterday and tomorrow, when reawakened from a sleep.
the water boiled and became a wind which caused every mountain to fly like straw before a fierce wind, hot and burning having cleaved through the mountains, he revealed the mines, you could see ruby on ruby shining like moonlight.
in that glow you behold him, a chinese moon face, his two hands of separation full of blood like the hands of a butcher.
from the scent of the blood of his hands all the spirits are drunk with him all the skies abject before him bravo, the gracious giver.
when he slays, it is like the trampling of grapes that through the perishing may become immortal, the grapes become syrup though you trample hundreds of thousands of grapes, all will be one when such a door has been opened for the soul towards unification.
it is necessary that bossshould take the hand of that soul, put the ring on his finger, bestow kingly apparatus.
fire worshiping heart of mine who spins like a ball in the fire, say to the saki, quick now, a glass of lee's to begin with.
come, lip biting saki, cook with that wine the raw ones bravo, garden and orchard and vine from which you pressed the grapes.
i will give a hint which no one gives the hint is this, fair of stature, that on that night you transported me unselfish, you committed me over to that moon face of mine.
you, reason, do you remember how, when the king of reason out of love bestowed that fiery wine on me, at the first breath you died?
that darling brought two dishes, one of fire, one full of gold if you take gold, it becomes fire, and if you set on fire, you withe game.
see the proud saki.
extinguish that pretty fire.
what do you know of the power of the fire, for there you are a little child?
get out of the fire, you will rise happy out of theifnitialized.
and if you flee into the gold, like gold you will have congealed my heart came like a pen in the fingers of the beloved tonight it is writing zap, tomorrow it will write mi.
he trims a pen for epistolary style, copying and the rest the pen says, i am resigned, you know who am i, power?
now he blackens its face, now he rubs it in his hair now beholds it upside down, now he uses it for a task.
on one sheet he cancels a world and makes it headlesson another sheet he deers a perilous conjunction from calamity the splendor of the pen is according to the dignity of the scribe, whether it is in the hand of a king or a commander.
he splits its head for the reason he knows galen knows best what is best for the patient.
that pen is unable to utter by its own reason any applause that pen knows not of its own nature to make disapproval.
whether i call it pen or call it flag, in it is sense and senselessness bravo, the conscious senseless one.
the mind can not compass its description, for in it is the union of opposites, a composition without composition, amazing.
constrained yet with free will.
by the right of old companionship and friendship, do not repeat to the beloved all that i uttered last night, unconscious and sick but if, as the all decrees, that moon hears of these things, he himself knows what a melancholy lover will say in the darkness of night.
when reason is not at home, the tale will be distorted now low, now high, now war, now submissiveness.
if the all should scatter my frenzy over the world, you will not see one man with reason all will be stripped of their reason reason, can it be that you pour these dark suggestions intone?
cloud, can it be you who rains upon me this troubled potion?
mosley, mosley, guard well your hearts let none go about me, either to sightseer or to sympathize.
at dawn i said to that moon, i body and you soul, i main this state that you see, and weepforwhat you know.
you are beyond infidelity and faith, and drive a fast mount what a fearless king you are.
do precisely as you are.
just once return and pass our way, gaze on the thicket of the souls behold the trees wet with blood, like branches of coral you have heard how a raw one gets a reputation among men, not fearing that self will may stamp its brand on his forehead.
do not disapprove of the pure ones be afraid of the blow of the fearless ones for the patience of the soul of the suffering ones will annihilate you utterly.
you who are self ed, do not wrestle with the unselfish you enemy of the dervishes, do not mix in fight with them with stratagem of which you are incapable of the mistress, with life bestowing and blood spilling, kindles the fire to a fierceness by divine powers.
usspiritual form, why are you fleeing from us?
you are after all of the house, you know the state of this servant.
by the right of my hot tears, by the right of my pale cheeks, by the bond that i have with you beyond this human phase though the whole world were laughing, without you it were prison enough this, show compassion to this deprived prisoner.
though i am with all my very dear ones, when you are afar ian sore distraught the all, may such distraction not be the lot of anyone.
what shall i tie to that fleeing foot of yours so that you mayn't flee?
you resemble an unfaithful soul you are fleeing like our beloved.
though you gallop up out of the nine spheres and set fire to the seven seas, i will rend to pieces spheres and seas with love and patience and strength.
even if like the sun you surmount the fourth heaven, i will still come secretly to your stirrup like a shadow.
the physician of the soul brought a tray as a present if you are a doting old man you will become fair and youthful.
it gives life to the body, intoxication to the soul it take away from the heart's slackness, from the cheeks'pallor.
that was the tray of jesus, it became the inheritance of the physicians you will find in it the antidote, if you have swallowed the poison of death.
you who seek that tray, turn your face to this fibula when you turn your face thither, you will become the moon face of the world.
there is a pill hidden there which touches not the teeth, neither wet or dry, neither hot nor cold.
through that pill smaller than a grain you will come to the top of that dome, for that has become the dwelling place of jesus and that grain, for all its smallness, has become a protection, and every powerless man seeks the protection of your generosity never will he whom you have nourished become lean.
i said to the physician of the soul, today in thousands of ways there is a sure footing, since you have trodden firmly.
he to whom you have given a place will never be by aught displaced grief will not pair that heart which you have pared of grief be silent and hush your words now that the test has befallen you say farewell to pledges, you are free of those pledges.
my soul, why do you tarry so long in the land of exile?
return from this exile how long will you be dispersed?
i sent a hundred letters, i signaled a hundred ways either you do not know the way or you do not read the letter.
if you do not read the letter, the letter itself reads you and if you do not know the way, you are in the grip of him who knows the way.
return, for in this prison no one knows your worth sit not with the stouthearted, for you are a gem of this mine.
you who have escaped from heart and soul, washed your hands of heart and soul, leaped forth from the snares of the world return, for you are one of the falcons.
you are both water and stream and are seeking for water you are both lion and deer and are better than they.
how far is it from you to the soul?
are you more remarkable than the soul?
are you commingled with the soul, or a ray of the beloved?
you are the light of the moon in the night, candy and sugar on the lip dear power, what a person you are.
dear power, you are divine marvel.
every moment you bestow beauty and splendor, and we bestow heart and head and soul.
such a market is very fine you give and take splendidly.
it is of your love to take away the life, of us to die like sugar to eat poison from your hand is the very fountain of life.
become of one hue with the community, that you may feel spiritual delight enter the street of the tavern, that you may behold the screwdrivers drain the cup of passion, let it be that you become a disgrace close up the eyes of your head, that you may see the secret eye.
open your two hands if you desire an embrace break the idol of clay, that you may see the face of the idols.
how long for the sake of an old woman will you endure such dowry?
how long for the sake of three loaves will you face sword and spear?
lo, the saki who is no tyrant, in his assembly there is circle enter and sit in that circle how long will you gaze on the circling of fate?
here is a good bargain give a life and receive a hundred cease to act the and dog, that you may behold the shepherd's love.
by night the beloved goes about do not take opium tonight, close your mouth against food, that you may feel the taste of the mouth.
you say, the enemy took grandson away from me go, abandon grandson, that you may see twenty grandson's think of naught but the creator of thought thought for the beloved is better than thinking about bread.
with the breadth of the all's earth why have you clung to prison?
knot care less, that you may see the expanse of paradise.
silence this speech, that you may gain speech one day pass away from the soul and the world, that you may behold the soul of the world.
you imprisoned in air nine spheres of emerald till you brought into orbit a form of earth.
water, what are you washing?
wind, what are you seeking?
thunder, why are you roaring?
spheres, why are you turning?
love, why are you laughing?
reason, why are you binding?
patience, why are you content?
face, why are you pale?
what place is there for the head on the road of fidelity?
what worth has life itself in the religion of manliness?
that man is perfect in quality who is the quarry of annihilation there is roomfornot one hair in the circle of uniqueness.
whether anguish or joy, it is far from freedom cold is that person who remains in hotness and coldness.
where is the gleam of the charming brow if you have seen my moon?
where is the gleam of drunkenness if you have drunk spiritual wine?
has not disquietude from this purse and that bowl seized you?
after all you are not a blind ass what are you circling around?
with the breast unwashed what profits it to wash the face?
from greed you are like a broom, you are always in this dust.
every day for me is friday, and this sermon of mine is perpetual this pulpit of mine is high, my screen is true manliness.
when the steps of this pulpit become empty of men, the spirits and the angels will bring a present from the all.
garden, do you know in whose wind you are dancing?
you're pregnant with fruit, intoxicated with the rose bower.
why do you possess this spirit, if you are this body?
why do you paint this image, if you are all soul?
what offering is life to you?
dates brought to basra.
how can i speak of you as a pearl, since you are the envy of oman?
reason, wag your chin this wise by your own analogy what do you know of that wise, being fascinated by human chins?
it is difficult to play the lute for the deaf, or to sprinkle sugar over the head of one suffering from the bile.
faith borrows a hundred eyes to see him, until faith becomes drunk with that wine divine.
i fall at the foot of the heart every day i say, your secret will be hidden unless you cause it to leap forth.
that six sided dice is appropriate to that checkerboard how shall the human dice be contained in any bowl?
the stag, why do i return every instant to your hand, if you are not the king?
how happy the day when you return from the road and shine in the window of the soul like the moon from above.
with that moon ever waxing, devoid of all ornaments, you will adorn like the empyrean this earthly floor.
many a fettered man of reason, who is escaped out of selfmany a soul, which begins anew the rule of sugar cracking, many a caravan without mount and provision will find, out of this six cornered abode, the road into the gracelessness illuminate my soul, so that my soul says to my body, today regard me, you master of tomorrow.
you are water, i am a stream how should i seek to join you?
the stream has no luster if you do not open the water.
you who are happy with being before that is, being more than all by allah, so long as you are with self, you will not find repose from self.
i was seeking the heart on the road i saw it fallen into this melancholy passion, itself like a man suffering from the bile the stag, your separation has filtered you will see nothing but love, though you filter me a hundred times if the knowledge of the tavern were your intimate companion, this formal knowledge and science would be mere wind and caprice in your eyes and if the bird of the unseen cast its shadow upon you, prosthesis of the world would be but a fly in your sight.
if the concourse splendor of the king of reality displayed itself, this drum of the kings would be for you a jingling bell if the dawn of true felicity showed favor to you, how would your skirt and beard be in the hand of the night patrol?
if the leaders cast their protection on you, the thought that is before the heart would be behind.
if your heart's ear did not hear things contrariwise, one letter of the book of lovers would be enough.
he says, all are dead, not one has returned if that fool saw one who had returned, he would be a somebody.
the flame of your soul is trembling at the cold wind of death it would not be trembling if it had borrowed fire from immortality if your worthless nature were not a fellow traveler of the worthless, this fatal draft would be in your throat like a choking straw this child of your intelligence would have reached blessed is he in the school of happiness why are you stuck at he frowned?
silence, for all these things are dependent on the moment the moment were here, summons would come to you raid become a lover, become a lover and bid groaning begone you are after all a king's son, how long will you be prisoner?
to the king's son, the commander ship and the fox ate is all disgrace beware that you take nothing but love.
that one is not the commander of death, he is the prisoner of death the whole passion for the fox ship is naught but a boredom.
if you are not a picture on the bath, seek after the spirit soling as you are in love with form, whence will you receive spirit?
do not mingle with dust, for you are a pure essence do not mingle with vinegar, for you are sugar and milk.
though on this side people do not recognize you, on that side where side is not, how matchless and incomparable you are.
this world is death, and in this perishing world if you are not prince, is it not enough that you do not die?
you are the lion of the all in the form of man that is evident in your attack and stateliness and courage.
since i saw your learning and station and graces, i have become indifferent to the learning of the madman of hariri.
this life has become untimely but since you exist in the light of the all, what matters timely or late?
the measure of the beloved is the glory of the lover helpless lover, behold of what grandeur are you and i. the beauty of the moth is according to the measure of the candle after all, are you not a moth of this light ing candle?
the stag, this is why you are invisible, because you are the very source of sight, or the essence eye of the all seeing.
i found in my house a token of the king, a ring of ruby and abet particular of the mine.
last night i was asleep and he came, that comforting and spiritual confidant.
last night my king broke two hundred cups and pots in rowdy, drunken fashion in the manner you know about.
you might say that out of drunkenness he chose my rook, form rook is engaged on a secret business of the king.
today the scent of the beautiful one is in this house, from this scent in every corner a beauty is visible.
the blood in my body is pure wine from that scent every hair of me is a drunken pitch black hindu.
give ear and listen to the drunken shout, these melodies of song from my lute like stature.
fire, wine and tent are as cash the elders of the path receive their youth.
in the mirror of bossha va din, king of both the form of the whole is published and the sea of realities.
i grant that you do not see the face of that chinese girl do you not see the moving of this veil proceeds from her moving?
through the luster of that moon which is hidden in the skies, you have seen a hundred moons in earthly particles.
leaf, scattered in the contrary wind, if you do not see the wind, do you not see that you are so?
if the wind is not stirred by thought, you do not stir and if that wind does not sit still, you do not sit still.
heaven and spirit in this revolution of states are camels in hie, and you are the hinder most move upon yourself and drink of this blood, for in the womb of heaven you are a fetus child in the sphere of your heart suddenly a pain arises if you raise your head from the sphere, you know that you are not this your ninth month is the face of the stag, you who are the trustee of the trust of both worlds.
heart, be patient in this blood until the ninth month you are that month moon, king, for you are a shit valhalla.
heart, since you have become understanding of the mysteries, you have become useless for all other employments.
be still mad and insane why have you come to your sense sand recovered your wits?
meditation is all for the sake of acquiring you have become entirely giving.
preserve that same order of maj nun, foryou have become indifferent to all orderings.
if you desired to be veiled and prudent, why did you go about drunk in the market?
to sit in a corner yields you no profit once you have become the friend of the dissolute of this path.
go forth into the desert, that same desert where you were you have wandered long enough in these ruins.
there is a tavern in your neighborhood, from the scent of it swine you have become intoxicated seize this scent and go to the tavern, for you have become nimble paced as that scent.
go to the mountain of oaf like the simulator why have you become the friend of owl and heron?
go like a lion into the thicket of reality why have you become the friend of to and hyena?
go not after the scent of the shirt of joseph, for like jacob you are in mourning.
no interpreter of our fires, not tongue for the secrets of our hearts heart and love have become naked of one hundred veils, soul and soul seated two and two if gabriel himself would enter between the two, he wouldn't have one moment's security from the fire.
every instant union upon union, on every side vision upon vision, you see on the roof of which kings of reality you are seated as a watchman.
the end of the thread of union with the all is the mount of sinai which cannot endure this light for a single moment.
if you were to knot together a hundred universal reasons, there would be no ladderforthis tall roof if i utter a sign of that sinless one, the signs of all true men would bow prostrated.
this word has becomeforyou a present from that light which transcends the reach of words.
words have become a beltfor bosscome, fasten it on, if you have a waist.
you have flown from this narrow cage, you have escaped from this prison of cutpurses.
you have removed dust from the mirror, you have seen on the mirror what you have seen.
you have heard reports of low and high seen on high what you have heard.
since you have committed water and clay to water and clay, you have carried the fabric of spirit to heaven.
you have leaped out of the revolutions of the body, you have reached the spiritual revolutions.
you have emerged out from the mother's womb that is this world, you have run to the intelligent father.
every moment drink wine sweeter than life in exchange forever bitterness you have quaffed for our sake.
choose and seize whatever you desire, since you have chose nus above all the world.
you have gone forth from the cooking pot of this world like sweetmeat, because you are now cooked for the table of that world though the egg has become empty of your bird, you have flown beyond the egg of the world.
hereafter you are not contained in this world, fly on yonder, for every moment you are augmenting.
silence.
depart, for your lock has been opened death has directed the key to your matchlock these nuptials be blessed for us, may this marriage be blessed for us may it be ever like milk and sugar, this marriage like wine and halve.
may this marriage be blessed with leaves and fruits like the date tree may this marriage be laughing forever, today, tomorrow, like the hawk man of paradise.
may this marriage be the sign of compassion and the approval of happiness here and hereafter may this marriage be fair of fame, fair of face, fair of omen haste moon in the azure sky.
i have fallen silent, for words cannot describe how the spirit has mingled with this marriage.
water of life, turn me about like a mill with plenty.
so continue, that forever and ever my scattered heart may ban one place, i in another.
twig and leaf move not save by a wind straw blade flies not without amber.
since a straw moves not save by a wind, how shall the world move without desire?
all the parts of the world are lovers, and every part of the universe is drunk with encounter only they do not tell you their secrets it is not proper to tell the secret save to one worthy.
the grazers, whose pasture grazes on the cup and table of the sweet power.
did not the ants tell their secret to solomon, did not the mountain echo back to david?
were this heaven not a lover, his breast would not be serene and if the sun had not been a lover, there would be no radiance in his beauty.
if earth and mountain were not lovers, no blade of grass would spring from their breasts of the sea were not aware of love, it would finally come tortes somewhere.
be a lover, that you may know the lover be faithful, that you may see the faithful.
heaven did not accept the burden of trust, for it was in love and afraid to make a mistake.
i heard that you praised your servant who am i?
you have shown yourself such kindness.
you are the ruby mine, the soul of amber in compassion you ravished a blade of straw.
i was a worthless and valueless piece of iron you polished me, made me a mirror.
you ransomed me from the flood of extinction, for you are both noah and the ark of judi.
heart, if you have burned, give scent like aloe wood if you are raw, then burn now, for you are firewood.
i slept under the shadow of fortune you opened a way form beside the five senses.
on that road it is possible to go to east and west, without feather, without head or foot.
on that road is no thorn of free will no christian is there, no jew.
the soul, beyond the circumference of its blue sky, is escaped from blueness and blindness.
why do you weep?
go to the laughing ones.
why do you tarry?
go to the same place where you once were.
from this honey, which has a hundred kinds of sting, has anything increased except boils?
i in body you are with us, in heart you are in the meadow you are the quarry yourself when attached to the hunt.
you are girdled here in the body like a reed, inwardly you apelike a restless wind.
your body is like the diver's clothes on the shore you like fish, your course is in the water.
in this sea are many bright veins, many veins too that are dark and black the brightness of the heart derives from those bright veins you will discern them when you lift your wings.
in those veins you are hidden like the blood, and if i lay finger, you are shy.
from those veins the voice of the sweet veined lute is melancholy, reflecting the grace of that melancholy.
those melodies come from the horseless sea which thunders like waves out of the infinite.
the springtime brings me into laughter, a hangover keeps deadpanning a moon has brought me into the circle, a friend has madame friendless.
i have become as a string through the voice of a lute the melody is audible, the string is invisible.
like dust he stirred up the world he has vanished like a winding a dust.
that king lit up life like a spark who vanished in a spark as if burning that one adorned the beauty of the rose garden who vanished like a rose in the soul of a thorn.
my heart says, tell the saki my soul is drunk at least for that remaining one.
my heart like a mirror is silent, speaking in the hand of an amazing mirror holder from whom moment by moment there shines in the mirror an amazing figure of beauty.
every form is as the sultan's falcon itself a quarry, it seeks quarry do you not seek a sign of the separated ones?
where has gone that fidelity and affection?
the fishes are on this dry land of exile come, water of the sea of life.
how long shall the fish remain out of its water?
what am i today?
i do not know you know.
who am i to remain or not to remain?
i desire you to remaining the world.
let thousands of souls like me and better than me be your sacrifice, for you are the soul of the soul of the soul.
you say to me, be silent have you not repented that you are leaving the road of tongueless?
by the dust of your feet, i was not with myself out of drunkenness and wine and dizziness.
i am no better in silence than a vat the wine does not remain hidden in the vat.
the wine of love is a more bubbling wine, for ordinary wine bubbles for a moment and this is ever bubbling his lace, red as the judas blossom, does that which only hundred jars of judas red wine can do.
i could describe his lips further but your mouth would burn if you were to recite it.
a strange waterfowl is the lover's soul, bringing water as present from fire through fire, athirst, he discovered the joy of his water fire makes a ladder to his water.
where are you, martyrs divine, affliction seekers of the plain of balalaika?
where are you, light spirited lovers, speedier on wing than the birds of the air?
where are you, celestial kings who know how to open heaven's gate?
where are you, escaped from life and place?
how can anyone tell reason, where are you?
where are you, you who have broken the door of the prison and set the debtors free?
where are you, you who have opened the door of the storehouse?
where are you, help of the helpless?
you are in that sea whereof the world is the foam swim awhile more.
the forms of this world are the foam of that sea leave the foam, if you are of the people of purity.
my heart foamed, which took the shape of words let go the form and go take the heart, if you are of shamanism i, rise out of the east, for you are the source of the source of the source of every radiance.
out of drunkenness and dissolution i have become such that do not know earth from water.
i do not find anyone in this house you are sober come, perhaps you will find.
i only know that the assembly was set up first by you i donor know if you are wine or caboodle plus inwardly you are the soul of the soul of the soul, outwardly you are the sun of the sun.
you are sweet enchanting for you are the messiah you burn up dibs for you are a meteor.
make me happy tempered, for you are wine make me sweet smellingforyou are rosewater.
you are the zephyr, for you make the garden to laugh, though to the thirsty you are torture.
come, see the numerous drunkards in the bazaar, if you area bailiff and making a census.
like beggarsforbread now questioning, like sufferers corresponding your smile is brief as a lightning flash, so you are a prisoner in the shadows of the clouds.
enter the assembly of the eternal king behold circulating the porringers like water troughs.
you are a lovely ruby, but you are in the mine you are very beautiful, but you are in the veil.
if to the king you fly, you are the white falcon if to the graveyard you fly, you are the raven.
youthful of fortune, clap hands and say, youth, youth, to youth.
say no word to anyone, if he presses you hard only say, the all knows best what is right.
the garden is here, springtime, and the tall cypress we will not go back from these surroundings.
open the veil and close the door here are we, you and i, and the empty house.
today i am the special companion of love, having seized the cup of noticeboard minstrel sweet of melody, sweet of reed, you must lament mighty sweetly.
said, joyous and happy, bring the wine forward immediately that we may drink happily and sleep sweetly in the shadow of eternal grace drink not by way of throat and stomach, sleep not as the result of nights.
heart, i desire you to rub that cup upon your eyes when you become completely annihilated in the wine, that hour you are perfect existence.
you will remain constant from heaven them to drink, without death and annihilation and transfer.
give up peevishness, and go around happily, secure from the governor's tortures.
you say, show where security is go, go, for still you are questioning.
day of such happiness, what day are you?
day, you are better than a thousand years.
all days are your slaves they are separation, you are union.
o'day, who shall behold your beauty?
day, you are tremendous in beauty.
you behold your own beauty, and that eye whose ear you box.
day, you are not day from the sun you are day through the light of the all glorious.
every evening the sun prostrates itself it begs for quittance of your moon.
day, hidden in the middle of the day, day, you abide eternally daily bread of days and nights, genuineness of north and south winds, will be silent from speaking of perfection, for you are beyond every perfection.
you become not manifest in words, for you are more manifest than all discourse by words spoken thoughts become manifest you are above imagination and thought, and that imagination and thought are athirst for you, you who have given smoothness to water.
both of these are dry mouthed in the water of spirit in the world full, of self empty.
the rest of the ode is veiled from you behind the curtain, foryou are weary when you are aiming at brotherhood, first of all you must wash your face if your head is splitting with drunkenness, do not seek to split the heads of your brothers.
either drive away the smell of your armpits, or say farewell to the beloved's embrace.
in the feast of a moon with hyacinth tresses how should it be etiquette for you to lament?
you want a quarry without a snare be sure that like me you are seeking the impossible.
if your ears are hot from drunkenness, you are a sufi of the concert of riotous ecstasy.
if your mind is unconscious of your ears, you are not single, you are a thousandfold.
the assembly is like a lamp, and you are like water the lamps ruined by water.
the sun has shone upon the gathering depart from the midst, for you are as a cloud.
sit not at the table, for you are raw where is the smell kaboom, if you are caboodle?
you went ahead, saying, i am the chamberlain by allah, you are not the chamberlain, you are the curtain.
since chamberlains of doors have indications, they know to what door you belong.
you are mounted on a wooden horse and stupidly rush to the charge.
either choose love, which is triple behindhand, or choose abstinence, if you seek after the reward.
sit and rise with the wakeful ones, for this caravan has departed and you are asleep.
through a widow you will arrive at the stage, and in you will find the way.
union with you is the source of happiness, for those are but forms and this is reality.
break not for a moment from your servant, for a ship cannot sail without water.
i am a faulty koran but am made correct when you recite.
a joseph alone, and a hundred wolves, yet he escapes when you are shepherd.
every time you ask me, iowa are you?
i am with tears and pale cheeks.
for the vulgar these two are tokens what are signs to you who are without sign?
unspoken you hear the discourse, unwritten you read the deed without sleep you show visions, without water you drive on the ships.
silence, have done with praises and petitions, for from the unseen has come thou shall not see me.
i said to my heart, why are you thus?
how long will you consort with love?
the heart said, why do you not also come to experience the delights of love?
even if you know the water of life, how shall you choose aught but the fire of love?
you in subtlety have become as the wind, you are full of wines the bumper glass.
like water, you give life to images like a mirror, you are trustee of beauty.
every mean soul that has not those properties may think that you are the sameyou who are the soul of heaven, even though in form you are of earth.
fine crumbled as surmise, you are the surmise of the eye of certaintyruby, of which mine are you?
enter the ring, for you are fine signet.
a thousand compassion are ashamed before you the moment you are full of wrath as a swordsmanship, your form is lovely, and what a sweet source you are in meaning.
bird of heart, fly not save in the air of selflessness candle of soul, shine not save in the palace of selflessness.
may the sun of the all's grace ever shine upon lovers, so that the shadow of the phoenix of selflessness may fail upon all though a lover may behold myriad fortunes and comforts, naught enters his vision save the calamity of selflessness.
look upon me, who have cast myself into affliction for sweetness i have experienced in the nonentity of selflessness.
what a life, what a hundred es indeed, if a man should sacrifice them in desire for selflessness and for the sake of selflessness.
lover, sit not with sorrowful ones, lest dust should fall on the joy of selflessness.
use cruelly anyone who is a lover of prudence that you may find new pleasures in the faithfulness of selflessness.
when you know selflessness, leadership loses its market for you head and leadership are as the dust of the foot of selflessness.
it is pleasant to get visibly on the throne of kingship overtone's enemies, but these things have no worth in comparison with selflessness if you wish that bossshould be your guest, empty your house of self, landpower of selflessness.
you who let a garden go for the sake of a small fig, let slip the houri for the sake of an unworthy crone.
i am reading my shirt, and repulsion comes over me from the glance that a crone cast at a youth.
a stinking mouthed crone with a hundred clutching talon sand tricks, putting her head down from the roof to snare clever one.
who is such a crone?
a savor less deception, fold on fold liken onion, fetid as garlic.
a prince has become her captive, pledged his belt she laughs in secret, fool of a prince ling.
no fresh blossom in the garden of her beauty, no milk in the breasts of fidelity of that whore.
when death opens your eyes, then you will behold her, her face like the back of a lizard, her body black as pitch.
no, be silent, give no more counsel.
the master's bond is very strong the chain of his love draws without the help of miserable chain.
proclaim, crier, at the head of every market, have you seen, mosley, a runaway slave?
a slave moon face, music scented, a troublemaker swift of pace in time of coquetry, in time of peace slow.
a boy, ruby robed, charming of countenance, sugar sweet, cypress stature, saucy eyed, acute, perfectly poised in his bosom a rebel, in his hand a pluperfect he plays a sweet air, charming, well seated does anyone have a fruit of the garden of his beauty?
or a bunch of roses to smell from the rose bed of his loveliness?
a joseph by whose price the king of egypt was bankrupted, on every side heart wounded ones like jacob by his glance.
i will give freely my sweet life as lawful to whomever brings me a sign of him, or even a veiled hint.
ah, from those lightning casting, sweet, mischievous cheeks.
a thunderbolt from its lightning has fallen on the soul of every helpless one.
when before the row of pearls and rubies shone like fire, sea of pearls surged out of the rock.
this heart torn into a hundred pieces gave a piece to the doorkeeper of the soul when he emerged in the heart of the curtain, it became a better piece.
paradise is divided into eight heavens, and one like a scroll behold the eight scrolls contained in a sheet of a cheek.
what kind of bird is this heart of mine, kneeling like a camel, or fire eating like an ostrich around a blaze.
quarry of joy, this heart of mine shared the same shop with your love it found a fine colleague and fellow worker in that shop through the sun of your love, the motes of the souls have become like the moon, and every moment a star of felicity comes into the sky.
your form is invisible, yet relates every detail like the messiah through the light of mary, the spirit of the all in atherosclerosis i, what inconsistency is there in the heart's states, at once abiding in love and fugitive from love?
soul of a hundred rose gardens, you have vanished from jasmine soul of the soul of my soul, why have you vanished from me?
since heaven through you is resplendent, what is veiled to you?
since the body through you is ing, how have you vanished from the body?
out of the perfection of the all's jealousy and the loveliness of your beauty, king of men, you have thus vanished from men and women.
candle of the nine skies, for you have passed through the nine skies, what secret is this, that you have vanished in titleholder?
canopus, before whose face the sun fainted, it is good, it is good that you have vanished from yemen.
musk of tartary makes a sign to mankind with every breath because you are the king of cathay and have vanished frontiersman what wonder, if you vanish from us and the two worlds, selfless moon that has vanished from self?
manifestation of souls, you have vanished in eucharistic out of exceeding suddenness you have vanished photofinishing, like joseph you have gone into the well water of life, how have you vanished from the rope?
what a joyous pleasure it will be, what a charming spectacle, when such a part returns to the source of the source.
wine will come from every side to its hand, without a cup, from every side to its eye, a darling, enchanting fair a darling who, did the granite rock catch scent of her ruby, the granite rock would receive life to become conscious.
the wine stole one attribute from the lips of my darling inevitably the soul became a wine ribberforthe love of those lips in dawn a monk went along with me on the way to the monastery i saw him a fellow sufferer and fellow worker with myself he brought to me, that auspicious companion, a bowl from that bowl my soul became out of itself, a drunkard.
in the middle of my unselfishness the of theifndispensably succorforthe helpless ones in unity with him.
happy the moment when with compassion you scratch the head of lovers, happy the moment when from autumn arises the wind of spring.
happy the moment when you say, come, poor lover, foryou are distracted by me, you have no regard for others.
happy the moment when he clings to the skirt of your grace and you say, what do you want of me, wasted drunkard?
happy the moment when that said of the assembly issues an invitation, when the cup of wine rides on the hand of the said.
the particles of our bodies will be happy through that immortal wine this greedy body will escape from the grief of eating at tables.
happy the moment when the beloved demands contributions from the drunkards, takes pledge from us with sweet and lovely cheeks.
happy the moment when in drunkenness the tip of your tress is confused, the helpless heart passionately takes to curl counting happy the moment when the heart says to you, i have no plantation, and you say, whatever you plant shall grow for you happy the moment when the night of separation says, goodnight happy the moment when that springtime light shall give greeting.
happy the moment when the cloud of divine grace come sin the air, from that cloud you rain pearls of grace on the desert this earth, which is thirstier than that black sand, shall swallow the water of life completely and make no dust.
love has entered upon us with cups and wine drunkenness has appeared to us from a hidden beloved.
a discourse surged like waves scattering pearls, it is necessary to silence it, since you do not let it pass into here.
when i reached your city you withdrew into a corner from me when i left your city you did not give me a goodbye glance whether you choose kindness or incline to rancor, you are all the soul's ease, you are all the feast's decoration.
the cause of your jealousy is that you are hidden, otherwise you are evident as the sun, for you are manifest through every mote if you choose to be in a corner, you are darling of the heartland a prince and if you rend the veil, you have rent the veils fall the heart of unbelief by you is confounded, the heart of faith by your wine is happy you have robbed all of their sense, you have pulled the ears of all.
all roses are a prey to december, all heads in pawn to wine you have redeemed both these and those from the hand of death since there is no constancy in the rose, since there is no way to the rose, on you only is trust to be put you are the stay and support if a few have cut their hands on account of joseph's face, you have deprived two hundred joseph's of the spirit of heart and reason you fashion the form of a person from filth and blood, that he may flee two part songs from the odor of foulness.
you make him a morsel of dust to become pure he escapes from foulness when you have breathed spirit into him.
come, heart, go to heaven, go to the all's pasture, since you have grazed awhile in the pasture of cattle.
set all your desire on that of which you have no hope, for out of original hopelessness you have reached thus far.
be silent, that the power who bestows words may speak for he made the door and the lock, and he also made a key.
tidings are newly arrived do you perhaps have no news oft?
the envious heart has turned to blood perhaps you have no heart the moon has shown his face, opened the wings of light borrow a heart and eyes from someone if you do not have any.
amazing, night and day a flying arrow comes from the hidden bow yield your life to this arrow.
what can you do?
you have no shield.
has not the copper of your being been changed, like moses, to gold by his alchemy?
what care?
though you have no golden your bag like koran?
within you is an egypt whose sugarcane bed you are what care, though you have no supply of sugar from without?
you have become the slave of cf>rm, like the idol worshippers you are like joseph, but within you do not gaze.
by the all, when you see your own beauty in the mirror you will be your own idol, you will not pass over to anyone.
reason, are you not unjust to call him like the moon?
why do you call him moon?
perhaps you have no sight.
your head is like a lamp containing six wicks from what areal six alight, if you have not that spark?
your body is like a camel which travels to the kaaba of the heart out of waspishness you have not gone on the pilgrimage, not because you have no ass.
if you have not gone to the kaaba, felicity will draw you on do not flee, idler, foryou have no means of passing from the all.
watchman of the dwelling, what sort of watchman are you?
for the night thief secretly carries off all our baggage.
throw cold water on your face, rise up and make a tumult, forbecause of your sleepiness all our profit has been turned to loss night and the sleep of watchmen are a thief's lamp why do you not extinguish their lamp with a breath?
give over being idle be a night traveler like the stars.
what do you fear of earthly beings, since you are a celestial rider?
two or three barks of a dog do not cut off the road to horsemen what shall a dog or a hayes ox snatch from a fierce lion?
what effect have the dog of wrath and the ox of lust on lion who rends asunder the ranks of vision in the thicket of realities?
were you not two drops of water, that now you make snark and a noah to run to left and right midst the waves of the flood?
since the all is your protection, what peril threatens the road for you?
your cap reaches the sky, for you are the head of all heads what an excellent path it is, with the all as companion the hard journey would become like eternal paradise.
do not say, what present shall i bring as a token?
their own face is enough as a present to the sun and moon.
whether you go or not, your felicity is running, discharging all the business in tranquility and love.
when fortune is your slave it does you a thousand services, for it cannot do without you, even though you drive it from the door sleep sweetly, forluck does not sleep on your account take atone in your hand, forit will become a ruby of the mine.
mount heaven like jesus say, let me see like moses, for goodwill not say to you, silence, thou shall not see me.
silence, heart yet what use, if you block the lid of the jar?
the heart of the vat will split when those truths ferment.
every moment two thousand times you will recite this poem, if you realize how it travels beyond realities.
idol, you are so subtle that you enter into our soulidol, by the right of your grace, pray enter amongst us.
you possess the true world, you have not your home unearth what would it be if for a time you entered our world?
you are subtle and without mark, you are hidden even from the hidden this suddenness of mine shines forth when you enter our hidden part.
since you possess the speech of all birds, solomon, what honey you impart to the lip when you enter our tongue.
in the world you alone are king, no one draws your bow will fly like an arrow if you enter our bow.
parade forth, theif, for you are the touchstone of the all all our copper turns to gold when you enter our mine.
you have the attribute of the all when you enter any breast, you display from that breast the glow of mount sinai.
you have the attribute of a lamp when you enter a houseboy night, all the house receives light from the splendor of your brightness you have the attribute of wine when you are in an assembly you kindle two thousand tumults and riots with your sweet graciousness when joy is fled, when passion is flown, what grasses and roses grow when you sweetly act the water carrier.
when the world is frozen, when gaiety is dead, what other worlds you open out of the unseen.
from you comes this importunity in the heart of the restless ones otherwise what acquaintance would dark earth have with brightness?
you are the sky about the earth revolving night and day sky, what do you want of us?
are you not the source of all light?
now you scatter rain, now you sift the earth you are not seeker of filings, after all, you are all mine and touchstone.
like men seeking filings night and day you sift the earth why do you worship earth?
are you not the fibula of all prayers?
what wonder if a beggar seeks a gift from a king?
this is the wonder that a king begs from a beggar.
even more amazing is this the king has gone so far in petition that the beggar falls into error and thinks he is king.
sky, are you not king?
is not the earth your slave?
then why are you in the air night and day serving the earth?
the sky answers me, no one moves without reason if straw flies, that is due to some amber.
my words are meat to the angels if i speak no words, the hungry angels say, speak, why are you silent?
you are not of the angels, what do you know of angels'food?
what should you make of manna?
you deserve chives.
what do you know of this pottage that comes from the kitchen of the brain, where the all acts the householder night and day?
, say to the mistress, turn your face to us.
err say, sun, all face without a back.
my idol scolds, saying, why have you fallen in the middle of the road?
idol, why should i not fall from such a wine as you have given me?
idol, i fell in such wise that even at the resurrection i shallot rise, when you held such a cup and uncovered such a flask.
i am dissolute, yet i have a little understanding, for you lookup my head and placed it in your bosom.
idol, from your drunken eye which is the wine holder of love, you give wine without a cup what a mighty master you are.
it is of your generosity, too, that the wine has swept away my reason, for if it still kept its reason, it should burst with happiness.
you gave me a bowl so that i am clapping my hands, for wit hone cup i escaped from one thousand undesirable things.
by your two ravishing drunken eyes from which joy was born, you are the primal spirit, for you were not born of any man since it has become certain to my heart that you are the soul of the soul of the soul, open the door of grace, foryou are the stay of a hundred worlds.
when separation has become rebellious, you sweetly smite its neck in retribution for your lovers, for you are the sword of the age when union has become lean, nourish it with the goblet everything before you obtains nourishment gratis.
your sun has at last entered aries in felicity, for the ancient world discovers from you the glow of youth.
what concerts are in the soul, what flagons pouring, which are reaching the ear from that tambourine and harp and songs.
how full is this rose bower with the song of the nightingale, so that from the riotous shouts of the drunkards you cannot tell wine from bowl.
all the branches are in flower, the kings have seized the cup all have departed out of themselves through the heavenly wine convey my soul's greetings to those kings, but you will not find anyone sober to convey my greetings to them.
the gnat has quaffed wine and lost its head and beard feather, and annihilated nimrod with a dagger, oi if the wine does this to a gnat, say, what will it do to an elephant?
what shall i do?
the wine of place less land cannot be described from his life granting wine the dog of the cave is his lionize which does nothing but act the shepherd around the cavern of the drunkards.
if a dog has become so beside itself, consider what the raging lion, when it is faithful, discovers from the wine of those vessels.
has become an east through the rising of his shadow, for sparks reach the stars of spiritual truths from him.
go, love, for you have become the most perfect of the lovely ones you have smitten the necks of penitence and the penitent.
what can one rely upon with your love?
for you are such thunderbolt.
who can associate with you?
for you are all brawling neither earth nor heaven can stand or withstand you you aren't in these six directions, so whence have you come?
the eight paradises are in love with you how beautiful is your face.
the seven jells tremble at you what a fire temple you are.
hell says to you, pass, for i cannot endure you.
you are the paradise of paradise and where the hell of hell.
lovers'eyes are wet on their skirts because of your sweet eyes you are the provocation and brigand of every ascetic manana woman.
to be without you in the cloister is nothing but madness, for you are the very life of the cloister and temple.
give justice to my ruined heart, judge of love.
for you have taken tribute from my ruined village.
simple heart of mine, from whom do you seek justice?
it is lawful to love to shed blood, if you are of this guild, oi justice for lovers is beyond the bounds of the soul you are engaged in useless thought and fancy.
only the angels attributes are privy to love for sure you area prisoner of the attributes of donkey and div and wild beast.
enough, practice not magic first deer yourself, for you are the prisoner of the passion for magic and jugglery.
gaze on the cheeks of love that you may gain the attributes of true men sit not with the cold ones so you will not be chilled by their breath.
from the cheeks of love seek something other than the for your business is to be a fellow sufferer with love.
if you have the attributes of a clod, you will never fly in their you will fly in the air if you break to pieces and become dust.
if you do not break to pieces, he who composed you will break you when death breaks you, how will you become unique pearl?
when a leaf becomes yellow, the fresh root makes it green why are you content with a love from which you turn yellow?
go, nimble rising soul go on a strange journey to the sea of meanings, for you are a precious pearl.
if you remember, you have passed through water and claydo not be vexed that you are passing from this terrace to.
wash your wings of this water and clay, and become light and nimble what are you doing not to fly in the wake of your friends who have flown?
break the pitcher and enter the river, water of life before every pitcher breaker how long will you be the potter?
from this mountaintop go like a torrent towards the sea, for this mountain to no one's body offers an abiding place enough, cut not away from the sun either to east or west, for through him you are now a crescent, now as a moon at the full by the right and sanctity of that, that you are the soul of all men, fill a cup with that whose description you know well.
turn everything upside down, leave neither up nor down, so that men may know that today you are in this maiden arena, square.
strike the fire of wine in the chattel of shyness and shame the drunkard's'hearts are weary of secret joy.
the time has come for you to bring back to us that departed heart, that you should set flying our reasons like young doves.
you are speaking subtleties in the ring of dissolute drunkards it is fine when the treasure shines out in a ruin.
circumambulate the fermented wine among these consumed ones place before the raw ones that fricassee and eggplant concoction.
what has become of me?
you tell me, for how should i know what has become of me, your lips utter those words so easily.
with such a gait, when will you reach the station?
with such habit, how will you gain the goal?
you are very heavy of soul and largehearted how will you arrive among the nimble spirited?
with such grossness how will you be modest?
with such joining attachment for the world, how will you reach the joiner?
since there is no opening (readiness) in your head, how will you achieve the solving of the difficult secret?
you are like water left in this clay so how will you attain the pure from water and clay?
disregard the sun and moon like abraham, else how will you attain the perfect sun?
since you are weak, go, flee to the grace of the all, for without the gracious how will you attain the excellence?
without the tender care of that sea of loving kindness, how will you reach the shore of such a wave?
without the bursa of love and the labor of gabriel how will you like muhammad attain all the stages?
you take shelter in those who are without shelter how will you attain the shelter of the welcoming king?
before bimetallism sacrifice yourself utterly else, when you lie dead, how will you attain the name of the all?
once more you have resolved to go, once more you have made your heart like iron.
no, do not extinguish the lamp of our friendship you have poured oil into our lamp.
by allah, you have filled this world with rose and eglantine and lily of your own face.
by allah, let no enemy say you are a friend who did the enemy's work.
by allah, keep your servants together, you who have brightened the world.
once more you are laying on one side the love plays you did with me.
by allah, you have purified the skirt of the evil spirit by the scatter of your sleeves.
mine of gold minters, salas aldrin, like the moon you have made a harvest of silver.
o, you who have shaken a whole world, the voice of the reed, the voice of the reed, the voice of the reed.
what is the reed?
to that beloved of the sweet kiss the placebo kiss, the place to kiss, the place to kiss.
that reed without hand and foot fetches from men hand and foot, hand and foot, hand and foot.
the reed is a pretext this is not the responsibility of the reed, this is nothing but the sound of the wing of that phoenix.
the all himself it is what is all this veil?
it is drawing the people of the all to the all.
we are beggars, the all is the all sufficient know, what you see of the beggar is due to the rich.
we are all darkness and the all the light from the sun came the rays of this abode.
since the light in the house is mingled with shadow, if you desire the light, come out of the house to the roof.
now you are happy, now depressed if you do not want depressed heart, depart out of this depression.
you are putting me on triallove, you know my weakness, yet you go on doing so.
you are the interpreter of the enemy's secret you implant mistaken thoughts in his heart.
you are setting fire to the thicket, and at the same time uttering complaints.
it may be thought that you have been cruelly wronged, you are making uproar and complaint like the weak.
you are the sun who will oppress you?
you do whatever you desire from on high.
you make us envious of one another you make our quarreling into a fine spectacle.
to the agnostics you give wine as behindhand the ascetics you make drunk with tomorrow.
you give sorrow to the death meditating bird the schoolboy make drunk and singing.
you make the raven desirous of dung your parrot you wisecracking the one you draw into mine and mountain, the other you set face to the sea.
you lead us to happiness by way of suffering, or else you recompense our slip.
in this sea all is profit and justice you dispense all beneficence and kindness.
this is the head of the subtlety you speak its end, though you make us be without foot and head.
welcome, melody you are that melody which has brought sign from the spiritual world.
pass by the ear and strike upon our souls, lot you are the life of this dead world.
ravish the soul and go aloft into that world where you have carried the heart.
your laughing moon bears evidence that you have quaffed that heavenly wine.
your sweet soul gives a sign that you were nourished in honey from alas blades have begun to sprout from the earth to show the showings that you have made.
you are both candle and fair one and wine, likewise spring in the midst of december.
every side through love of you is one with feathers ablaze, the sun, and myriads like him.
since your fire always falls upon the reed, sugar has gone through this passion into the soul of the reed.
you have beheaded myriads with love so that the soul hasn't the strength to say, ah, alas.
the lovers have built from the evil of the eye underground houses like the city of ray there is no worse torture than knowledge alas for him who remains in good and evil.
those women of egypt in their unselfishness suffered wounds and did not utter woe.
the king in unselfishness on the night of ascension traversed road of a hundred thousand years.
with the wind of selflessness break the prison of bone and sinew and tendon theif, annihilate us, for you are as the sun and wear as the shadow.
do you know where you have come?
from the midst of all glorious sanctuary.
do you not remember at all those happy spiritual stages?
those things have become forgotten by you, so necessarily you are bewildered and distraught.
you sell my soul for a handful of dust what kind of bargain and sale is this?
give back the dust, and know your own worth you are not slave, you are a king, an emperor.
for your sake there came out of heaven the fair faced ones, the sweetly hidden.
you who are imam of love, say allah akbar, for you are drunk shake your two hands, become indifferent to existence.
you were fixed to a time, you made haste the time of prayer has come.
leap up why are you seated?
in hope of the fibula of the all you carve a hundred fibula', in hope of that idol's love you worship a hundred idols.
fly upwards, soul, obedient soul the moon is above, the shadow is low.
do not like a beggar knock your hand at any door knock at the ring of the door of heaven, for you have a long arm.
since the flagon of heaven has made you like that, be stranger to the world, foryou have escaped out of self.
i say to you, how are you?
no one ever says to the howlers soul, how are you?
tonight you are drunk and dissolute, come tomorrow and you will see what bags you have torn, what glasses you have broken every glass i have broken was my trust in you, formyriad wise you have bound up the broken.
secret artist, in the depths of your soul you have a thousand forms, apart from the moon and the lady of the moon mastitis if you have stolen the ring, you have opened a thousand throats if you have wounded a breast, you have given a hundred souls and hearts.
have gone mad whatever i say in madness, quickly say, yes, yes, if you are privy to alas in the battle ranks we have no shield before our lace in the concert we are unaware of reed pipe and tambourine.
we are naught in his love, dust at the foot of his love we are love fold upon fold, we are all love, nothing else.
when we have obliterated ourselves we become altogether love when surmise is pounded, it is nothing but the source of sight every body that has become an accident has become the soul and heart of self interest melt for of all sicknesses, there is nothing worse than being congealed.
out of desire of that melting and love for that cherishing the er within me has turned all to blood i have no er anymore.
my heart is broken into a hundred pieces, my heart has become astray today if you search, there is no trace of heart in me.
look at the orb of the moon, waning every day, so that in the dark period you might say there is no moon in the sky.
the increasing leanness of that moon derives from nearness to the sun when afar, it is full bodied, but such initiative doesn't belong to it.
king, for the sake of the souls send venus as a minstrel this soft pipe and tambourine are no match for the concert of the souls.
no, no for what is venus when the sun itself is powerless?
to be suitable for such ardor is not in the power of any lute or sun yesterday you made compact and repentance, today you have broken them yesterday you were a bitter sea, today you are a pearl.
yesterday you were ba dazzled and were augmenting today you are in ruins, a dregs seller and drunk.
drink the dregs, soul.
break from reason, soul.
do not wear blue, soul, until you worship idols.
today you are very dissolute, you share the cup with the sun you are not the master of the moon, nor the husband of the lady you are greater than dwellings, you are outside mines you are not that, but you are just as you are.
one corner you were bound up, of that corner you were sick you opened that which was bound and escaped wholly, escaped.
a beast is not a rider, it is only for the sake of labor you arena beast, you are a ing man and you have leaped from labor, leaped.
you are a heavenly messenger how can you be like the moon until you ride aloft and are in the hand of the thumb stall?
silence, give no sign, though you expressed everything every wounded one you have wounded has become the salve of world minstrel, when you draw your plectrums over the strings, you draw into labor these idlers of the way.
love, when you enter, you draw these tarrier in the world of separation to the beloved.
despite the highwaymen you make the world secure, you drag to the gallows the thieves of the heart city.
you see the cunning schemer, and cunningly blind him when you see the friend, you draw him into the cave.
you bind a golden saddle on the nimble footed horses the evil pack horses you draw to the baggage.
you cherish our melancholic ones every moment masterminded ones you drag very miserably.
to the thorn enduring lovers you show the rose bower you draw into the thorns the self willed whose joy is butfora moment.
to him who enters the fire you give access to the water he who runs to water, you drag him into the flames.
to moses, dusty of face, you give the way to glory pharaoh, the seeker of pomp, you draw into disgrace.
this reversed horseshoe acts without how and why moses the stick seeker, you draw into a serpent.
yesterday i clutched his skirt saying, essence jewel of generosity, do not say goodnight, do not grieve us, for tonight you are mine.
the darling face lit up and glowed red like a spark.
he said, that is enough draw back.
how long with this beggar's ways?
i said, the all's messenger said ‘seek your need of the handsome, if you desire to attain it.
'he said, the fair of face is self willed and bad tempered, for beauty permits plenty of airs and wickedness.
i said, if that is so, his wickedness is the life of the soul, because whenever you try it, it is the talisman of thymine.
he said, this is a raw talk who is the handsome?
this colorant form is a snare, it is cunning and inconstancy.
when a man possesses not the soul of the soul, know that he possesses not that many a man deers his soul with the form of mortality.
i said, pretty of cheek, bring nonexistence into existence change our copper to gold, you who are the soul of alchemy.
copper must yield itself to discover the alchemy you are again of corn, but you are outside the mill.
he said, you are ungrateful, you are ignorant of copper you are in doubt and conjecture from the things you show.
i began weeping wretchedly.
i said, you have the rule, come to the succor of your lover, source flight when he saw his servant's tears he began to laugh east and west came to life through that grace and familiarity.
fellow travelers and friends, weep like a cloud, so that fair ones may bring their sweet presence into the garden.
once again a melody has come from the reed pipe of fortunesoul, clap hands, heart, stamp feet.
a mine has become aglow, a world is laughing, a table is adorned, invitation is coming.
we are drunk and roaring in hope of the spring over the meadow, adoring one of handsome cheek.
he is the sun, we are a cloud he the treasure, we a ruin in the light of a sea we are as motes.
i am distracted, i am excused suffer me to brag with the light of mustang.
i will split the moon.
you who are weary of us, we are very desirous you who have withdrawn from the road, where is the courtesy of fellow traveling?
you are the marrow of the world, the rest is all hay how shall man get fat on eating hay?
every city which is ruined and turned upside down, that has happened because it remained far from the royal shadow.
when the sun has gone, what remains?
black night.
when reason has gone from the head, what remains but idiocy?
reason, the riot that has befallen, all springs from your departure and then you attribute the fault to a body without reason.
wherever you turn your back, there is error and war whenever you show your face, there is drunkenness and stupefaction.
the eighteen thousand worlds are of two divisions only half dead, inanimate matter, and half conscious.
the sea of consciousness from which all minds derive, that is the goal of all finite minds.
swimming soul, who go in this sea, and you who leap from this wheel like an arrow oi by the tent of your body a world is illuminated so how canyon be, you spirit of the tent.
spirit, eternity is intoxicated by your wine in your hand, earth is transmuted to puregold your description evades the understanding of the vulgar, incomparable one, and transcends the likeness of the imagination of one who likens you.
if any lover through yearning assigns a form to you, the sea of transcendence would not be made impure.
if the babbling poets compare the crescent moon to a horseshoe, the moon does not lose its moonless how could the sea remain a barrier in the path before moses?
and could the blind remain blind in the protection of jesus?
he is the master of all, even if he has not one slave that cypress of his is erect, even though you count it as not erect.
you are moses, though still the shepherd you are joseph, though still in the well.
you do not receive the wages for labor because you are not always engaged in this labor, but only casually.
silence, for without the all's food and wine from the unseen these words and images are but two or three empty bowls.
bird catcher, you have set a hidden snare over the snare you have laid smoke colored fabric.
too many thousands of birds you have slain by this trick and laid all the feathers plucked as a sign.
the birds that are your watchmen make a great cry what meanings you have planted in their cries.
for the thirsty birds you have placed in the taverns of your proximity vats of marian wines.
that vat, the scent of which neither kami nor drunkard catches, you have laid down for the sake of the nightmare that you know.
in patience and penitence you have compounded the immunity of the shield in cruelty and wrath you have set a lance.
without the danger of lance and shield, you have implanted for the pious believers a kingdom in the seven representatives under the black of the eye you have made the wave of light flow, and in that aged world you have set youthfulness.
in the breast which fashions forms out of imagination, you have placed a finger without pen and finger, oi though so many veils of flesh and sinew lie over the heart, you have given the heart penetration and visible passage.
which is stranger the glance that flies like an arrow, or the brow you have set as a bow?
or that in vessel like bodies you implanted various characters like wines bitter and sweet, or that this secret liquor distilled from the tongue you have placed on the tongue as the cream of speech?
every essence and accident is as a mouth shut bud which you have set as a veil over the cradle of virgins.
on the day when you cause them to blossom and remove those veils, soul of the soul of the soul, what soul you will have implanted.
restless hearts will see for what reason in separation you have placed entreaty and yearning.
silence, that that soul may speak the spoken things why have you implanted this long conjure?
you swore an oath that henceforth you would be cruel now you break your oath and finish with cruelty.
today we have seized your skirt and are drawing how long will you offer pretexts and cheat?
idol, that lip of yours is smiling and giving good tidings that you have resolved henceforward to be true.
since without you entreaty is not proper for us, what profit sit?
it is only proper when you the need.
without your sea we flounder like fish on the land so fish do when you part them from water.
the tyrant is cruel and the prisoner terrifies him with you the all does with you what you do in our case.
when you are cruel, with whom shall anyone terrify you?
only he who submits to whatever you demand.
silence, do not sell the unique pearl how do you fix a price for that which is without value?
reed, very sweet it is that you know the secrets that one does the work who has knowledge of the work.
reed, like the bulb you are lamenting for the roses do not scratch your neck, for you know the thorniness i said to the reed, you share the beloved's breath do not steal the secret from me.
the reed said, knowledge is for your total destruction.
i said, my salvation is in my destruction set fire, burn, donor leave knowledge.
he said, how shall i be a brigand on this caravan?
i know that knowledge is the leader.
i said, since the beloved cherished not those gone astray, knowledge has become disgusted with itself.
you who are unaware of self, you have nine eyes awareness is for us the veil of eyes and sight.
you are a companion of the lip because you have been beheaded in this way head is a shame, and knowledge disgrace you have become empty of self and full of secrets because you are aware of self worshiping and unbelief.
what lament, when you drink of the ruby lips of the beloved?
let knowledge utter this bitter lament.
no, no, you do not lament of yourself, noble one weep for him who is aware of others.
if heaven laments, the ox is under the load you are aware of this reversed deceptive horseshoe.
you who slay like sugar the lovers, slay my soul sweetly this moment, if you are slaying.
to slay sweetly and gently is the property of your hand, because you slay with a glance he who seeks a glance.
every morning continuously i am waiting, waiting, because you generally slay me at dawn.
your cruelty to us is candy do not close the way to assistance.
is it not the case that at the end you will slay me in front of the gate?
you whose breath is without a belly, you whose sorrow repels sorrow, you who slay us in a breath like a spark, every moment you proffer another repulse like a shield you have abandoned the sword and are slaying with the shield.
lion heart, you have made a hundred thousand lionhearts you have outstripped the sun even in generosity.
close your eyes, and have compassion once more break your oath, if you have sworn by the all.
see that these enemies are clapping their hands, since in this rage and warlike mood you have stamped your foot.
with whom is your inclination, soul?
so that i may become his dust, so that i may become the servant of him whom you have reckoned somebody.
body, at last stir yourself and make an effort.
effort is blessed why are you languid?
rise, approach the friend set your face to the earth, saying, idol sweet as sugar, by what are you vexed?
master of the soul, bossdin of, this head of mines of your palm tree for it was nourished by you.
soul, the breeze of spring is coming, so that you may raise your hand towards the rose garden.
grass and lily, tulip and hyacinth said, there grows whatever you sow.
buds and rose blossoms came as a helmet so that the ugliness of the thorn may not appear.
elevation has come to the tall cypress, it has found glory after humiliation.
spirit enters all the garden, for water displays spirit bestowing the beauty of the garden increases from water it has cameos most blessed friendship.
leaf has sent a message to fruit, you come quickly, do not scratch your ear.
that sweet grape is king of the fruits, because its tree was emaciated in the winter of lust how long shall the garden of our heart remain imprisoned and walled in?
oi seek the way from the heart, seek the moon from the soul what does the earth possess but dust?
rise, wash your face, but with a water which beautifies the cheek of the rose.
the branch of blossoms said to the basil, lay down whatever you possess in our path.
the nightingale said to the garden, we are the quarry of your snare.
the rose entreats the all for mercy, do not put winter in command over us.
the all says, how does juice come out of fruit until you squeeze it?
do not grieve over december and the raiding fuzz, and regard this business as lying at my door.
thanks and praise, joy and increase do not appear except you lament.
i will give you life unnumbered if i take away numbered life i'll give you wine without hangover if i take away wine that yields hangover.
how many pictures hath knowledge, why do you go on painting its pages?
through you the face of the pages has been blackened how can you read the writing of day?
have done with smoke look at the light from the moon of the beloved in the dark night.
enough, enough, come down from your horse, so that he may ride forth, the horseman supreme.
the bursa of the love of realities carried away my mind and heart ask me where it took them?
thither you do not know i reached that arch where i saw neither moon nor sky, that world where even world is parted from world.
give me respite for a moment for my mind to return time i will describe the soul to you give ear, for you are the soul but approach nearer, my master, lay your ear on my mouth for walls have ears, and this is a secret mystery.
it is a loving care from the beloved, this so strange a grace the lamps of vision enter by way of the ear.
accompany the of reason to the fountain of life, so that like the fountain of the sun by day you scatter light.
as mikhail became young through the intention of joseph, so the ancient world recovers its youth from this star.
the canopus of the soul swallows moon, sun and pole of the seven skies when he rises from the yemeni pillar.
take for a moment a clipping of faith and place it under your tongue that you may see how inwardly you are a mine of gold.
you have fallen into the mouths and men are chewing yousince you are a fine and well baked bread, you are always the same.
you dance like a mote when light takes your hand it is out of coldness and hotness that you are heavy as sand.
when the sun rises it says to the dark earth, since i became your companion, you are a master of double conjunction.
you are not a goat to come and play the rearing horse you are a shepherd like a raging lion before the herd of lions.
light up the five lamps of your senses with the light of the heart the senses are as the five prayers, the heart like the overcompensated verses.
every dawn a cry comes out of the heavens, when you settle the dust of the road, you lead the way to a sign.
so draw not back the reins of resolution like hermaphrodite ahead of you are two armies toward which you advance like a lance.
sugar has come to you, saying, open your mouth why have you closed your mouth like a pistachio to the sugar's invitation?
take the bowl of sugar eat by the bowlful may you enjoy it.
do not beat the drum of legend why do you give in to the tongue?
through pride you worship the sun, for has the sun of spiritual sciences, the governor of the sun of place.
you are my heaven, i am the earth in astonishment every moment what things have you set growing in my heart.
i am the dry lipped earth rain that water of grace.
of your water earth discovers rose and rose garden.
what does the earth know, what have you sown in its heart?
it is pregnant by you, and you know what it is bearing.
every atom is pregnant by you with another mystery for a while you write with the pregnant women in agony.
what things are in the womb of this enfolded earth from which are born i am the truth and the cry glory to me.
now it groans, and a camel is born of its womb a staff fall sand takes the way of serpent hood the prophet said, know the believer is like a camel, always drunk with the all who looks after his camel.
now he brands him, and now sets provender before him now he bends his knees with the shackle of reason, and now he loosens his knees to dance like a camel, to rend asunder the bridle and go in disarray.
see how the meadow can not contain itself for joy, since the spiritual garden has given it so many forms.
see the power of the universal soul to impart understanding, so that through it the dullard earth has become a spiritual shaper.
like the universal soul, the whole plenum is a veil or curtain of the sun of majesty who has no second, the eternal sun which never sets, the light of whose face is neither of the aquarius nor of libra.
one by one all that he sowed is appearing.
silence, for the oyster shells are pregnant with the divine pearls.
the power of beauty and quintessence of loveliness entered the soul and mind as a man will stroll in the garden at spring.
come, come, for you are the life and salvation of men come, come, for you are the eye and lamp of jacob.
lay foot on my water and clay, for through your foot darkness and vileness depart from water and clay.
through your glow stones turn to rubies, through your searching the searcher reaches his goal.
come, come, for you bestow beauty and glory come, come, for you are the cure of a thousand jobs.
come, come, though you have never departed, but i speak every word to you for a desired end.
sit in the place of my soul, for you are a thousand times my soul slay your paramour and lover, for you are the beloved.
if the king is not the king of the world, melancholy world, by his life i bid you say, why are you in confusion?
now you are and fresh with his green banner, and now you are overturned by the heart of his army of battle.
now, like the thought of an artist, you fashion forms now you sweep carpets like the broom of the porter.
when you sweep a form, you give its quintessence angel hood, and the wings and pinions of the cherubim.
silence, guard the water strictly like a water bag, for if you sprinkle it through a crack, know that you are at fault.
your heart has a sham, the pride of, because the dull of the heart proved itself a nimble mount.
finally you have broken away and departed into the unseen wonder, i wonder by which way did you depart from the world?
you beat your feathers and wings mightily and broke your cage you took the air and departed towards the spiritual world you were a special falcon in captivity to an old woman when you heard the falcon drum, you departed to the placeless.
you were a drunken nightingale amongst owls the scent of the rose garden arrived, you departed to the rose garden.
you suffered much crop sickness from this sour ferment finally you departed to the eternal tavern.
you went straight as an arrow to the target of bliss you flew to that target and departed from this bow.
this world like a ghoul gave you false clues you took no heed of the clue and departed to the clueless.
since you have become the sun, what have you to do with a crown?
since you have departed from the middle, why do you seek a belt?
i have heard tell of gazing on the soul when the eyes are extinguished why do you gaze on the soul, since you have departed to the soul of soul?
heart, what a rare bird you are, that in huntingforthe all grateful you departed towards the lance with two wings like a shield.
the rose flees from autumn ah, what a bold rose you are, that you went creeping along before the autumn wind.
like rain from heaven on the roof of the earthly world you ran in every direction and departed by the spout.
be silent, suffer not the anguish of speech sleep on, for you have departed into the shelter of such a loving friend.
come, come, for you will not find another friend like me were indeed in both worlds is a beloved like me?
come, come, and do not pass your days in every direction, for there is no other market elsewhere for your money.
you are like a dry water conduit and i am like the rain you are like a ruined city and i am like the architect.
except in serving me, which is the sunrise of joy, men have never seen and never will see any mark of happiness.
in sleep you see a thousand moving forms when sleep has gone, you see not a single creature.
close the eye of wrong and open the eye of intelligence, for the carnal soul has fallen like an ass, and concupiscence is the halter.
seek sweet syrup from the garden of love, for human nature is a vinegar seller and a crusher of unripe grapes.
come to the hospital of your creator, forno sick man can do without that physician.
the world without that king is like the body without its head wind round such a head as a turban.
if you are not black, let not the mirror go from your hand for the soul is your mirror and the body is rust.
where is the lucky merchant with jupiter in ascension, that i may do that business with him and purchase his goods?
come, think of me who gave you thought if you are buying rubies, at least buy from my mine.
go on foot towards him who gave you a foot, gaze on him with both eyes who gave you sight.
clap hands for joy for him from whose sea is the foam, for there is no grief or sorrow happening to him.
listen without ears speak unto him without a tongue, for the speech of the tongue is not without contradiction and injury.
if you have no beloved, why do you not seek one?
and if you have attained the beloved, why do you not rejoice?
if the companion is not compliant, why do you not become him?
if the rebel wails not, why do you not teach it manners?
if a priest is a veil to you, why do you not attack abuja and au ahab?
you sit idly saying, this is a strange business you are the strange one not to desire such a strange one.
you are the sun of the world why are you black at heart?
see that you do not any more have a desire for the knot of draco.
like gold you are prisoner in the furnace so that you may not be covetous of the purse of gold.
since unity is the bachelor's chamber of those who sayone, why do you not make your spirit a bachelor to all but the all?
have you ever seen a crazy person have affection with two lovers?
why not desire only one face and one chin?
there is such a moon in hiding in the night of your being why do you not pray and petition at midnight?
though you are an ancient drunkard and not new to the wine, the all's wine does not suffer you not to make turmoil.
my wine is the fire of love, especially from the hand of the all may be unlawful to you, since you do not make your life firewood.
though the wave of discourse is surging, yet it is better that you should expound it with heart and soul, not with lips.
heart, you are the phoenix of union.
fly, why do you not fly?
no one recognizes you, neither man nor peri.
you are the sweetheart, not the heart but with every device and trickery you have taken the shape of the heart so that you will ravish a thousand hearts.
for a moment faithfully you mingle with earth, and for a moment you pass beyond empyrean and firmament and the bounds of the two worlds.
why does not spirit find you, for you are its wings and feathers?
why does not sight see you who are the source of sight?
what power has penitence to repent of you?
what is consciousness that it should remain conscious along with you?
what shall be that poor copper when the alchemy comes?
will it not pass away from copper into the attribute of gold?
who is that poor seed when the springtime comes?
does toners seed hood pass away into tree hood?
who is poor brushwood when it falls into the fire?
is not the brushwood transformed into a spark by the flame?
all reason and science are stars are you the sun of the world who tear asunder their veils?
the world is like snow and ice, and you are the season of summer when you, king, are on its track, no trace of it remains.
say, who am i to remain along with you?
i and a hundred like me will pass away when you gaze towards me.
the perfection of the description of the power bosssurpasses the imaginations of deterministic and free will we have come once again to a power to whose knee no sea reaches.
tie together a thousand minds, they will not reach him how shall a hand or foot reach the moon in heaven?
the sky stretched out its throat eagerly to him it found no kiss, but it swallowed a sweetmeat.
a thousand throats and gullets stretched towards his lip.
scatter too on our heads manna and quails.
we have come again to a beloved, from whose air a shout has reached our ears.
we have come again to that sanctuary to bow the brow which is to surpass the skies.
we have come again to that meadow to whose nature is a slave.
we have come to him who was never apart from us for the water bag is never filled without the existence of a water carrier the bag always clings to the body of the water carrier, saying, without you, i have no hand or knowledge or opinion.
we have come again to that feast with the sweet dessert of which the sugarcane chewer attained his desire.
we have come again to that sphere, in whose bent the soul roars like thunder.
we have come again to that love at whose contact the power has become.
silence.
seal the rest under your tongue, fora jealous tutor has been put in charge of you.
speak not of the talk of the pride of, for to the rational mind is not suitable for that speech.
leap, leap from the world, that you may be king of the world seize the sugar tray that you may be a sugar plantation.
leap, leap like a meteor to slay the div when you leap out of stardom, you will be the pole of heaven.
when noah sets out for the sea, you will be his ship when the messiah goes to heaven, you will be the ladder.
now like jesus of mary you become the soul's physician and now like moses you will go forth to be a shepherd.
there is a spiritual fire for the sake of cooking you if you leap back like a woman, you will be a raw cuckold.
if you do not flee from the fire, and become wholly cooked like well baked bread, you will be a master and power of the table.
when you come to the table and the brethren receive you, like bread you will be sustenance of the soul and you will be the soul.
though you are the mine of pain, by patience you will become the treasure though you are a flawed house, you will be a knower of the unseen.
i said this, and a call came from heaven to my spirit's ear saying, if you become like this, you will be like that.
silence.
the mouth is intended for cracking sugar, not for you to cast slack and become a chinwag.
*i recall the fine film, daniel mann.
bad movie perhaps, but a fine unpopular film unpopular because the heroes are rats.
my memory of it is not necessarily accurate.
i will recount the story in broad outline.
es with his authoritarian mother in the old family house.
dreadful  atmosphere.
his mother orders him to destroy a litter of rats.
he spares one or two or several.
after a violent argument, the mother, who resembles a dog, dies.
the house is coveted by a businessman, and is in danger of losing it.
he likes the principalhe saved, ben, who proves to be of prodigious intelligence.
there is also a white female rat, ben's companion.
spends all his free time with them.
they multiply.
takes the pack, led by ben, to the home of the businessman, who is put to a terrible death.
but he foolishly takes his two favorites to the office with him and has no choice but to let the employees kill the white rat.
ben escapes, after throwing a long, hard glare.
then experiences a pause in his destiny, in his rat.
he tries with all his might to remain among humans.
he even responds to the advances of a young woman in the office who bears a strong resemblance to a ratbut it is only a resemblance.
one day when he has invited the young woman over, all set to be conjugalized, reoedi palized, ben suddenly reappears, full of hate.
tries to drive him away, but succeeds only in driving away the young woman he then is lured to the basement by ben, where a pack of countless rats is waiting to tear him to shreds.
it is like a tale it is never disturbing.
it is all there there is a animal not content to proceed by resemblance and for which resemblance, on the contrary, would represent an obstacle or stoppage the proliferation of rats, the pack, brings a molecular that undermines the great molar powers of family, career, and conjugality there is a sinister choice since there is a favorite in the pack with which a kind of contract of alliance, a hideous pact, is made there is the institution of an, a war machine or criminal machine, which can reach the point of self destruction there is a circulation of impersonal affects, an alternate current that disrupts signifying projects as well as subjective feelings, and constitutes a nonhuman sexuality and there is an irresistible that forestalls attempts at professional, conjugal, or  are there  animals with which one can play oedipus, play family, my little dog, my little cat, and then other animals that by contrast draw us into an irresistible?
or another hypothesis can the same animal be taken up by two opposing functions and movements, depending on the case?
one of the main problems of mesh natural history was to conceptualize the relationships between animals.
it is very different intense, animal.
in this respect from later evolutionism, which defined itself in terms of genealogy, kinship, descent, and filiation.
as we know, evolutionism would arrive at the idea of an evolution that does not necessarily operate by filiation.
but it was unavoidable that it begin with the genealogical motif.
darwin himself treats the evolutionist theme of kinship and the naturalist theme of the sum and value of differences or resemblances as very separate things groups that are equally related can display highly variable degrees of difference with respect to the ancestor.
precisely because mesh natural history is concerned primarily with the sum and value of differences, it can conceive of progressions and regressions, continuities and major breaks, but not an evolution in the strict sense, in other words, the possibility of a descent the degrees of modification of which depend on external conditions.
mesh natural history can think only in terms of relationships between a and not in terms of production from a to x. but something very important transpires at the level of relationships.
for mesh natural history conceives of the relationships between animals in two ways series and structure.
in the case of a series, i say a resemblesresembles c, etc.
all of these terms conform in varying degrees to a single, eminent term, perfection, or quality as the principle behind the series.
this is exactly what the theologians used to call an analogy of proportion.
in the case of a structure, i say bee is to bird as sky is to trial and each of these relationships realizes after its fashion the perfection under consideration gills are to breathing under water as lungs are to breathing air or the heart is to gills as the absence of a heart is to tracheas.
this is an analogy of proportionality.
in the first case, i have resemblances that differ from one another in a single series, and between series.
in the second case, i have differences that resemble each other within a single structure, and between structures.
the first form of analogy passes for the most sensible and popular, and requires imagination but the kind of imagination it requires is a studious one that has to take branchings in the series into account, fill in apparent ruptures, ward off false resemblances and graduate the true ones, and take both progressions and regressions or degraduations into account.
the second form of analogy is considered royal because it requires instead all the resources of understanding entendement, in order to define equivalent relations by discovering, on the one hand, the independent variables that can be combined to form a structure and, on the other hand, the correlates that entail one another within each structure.
as different as they are, the two themes of series and structure have always coexisted in mesh natural history in appearance contradictory, in practice they have reached a more or less stable compromise.
in the same way, the two figures of analogy coexisted in the minds of the theologians in various equilibriums.
this is because in both cases nature is conceived as an enormous mimesis either intense, animal.
in the form of a chain of beings perpetually imitating one another, progressively and regressively, and tending toward the divine higher term they all imitate by graduated resemblance, as the model for and principle behind the series or in the form of a mirror imitation with nothing left to imitate because it itself is the model everything else imitates, this time by ordered difference.
this mimetic or mimological vision is what made the idea of an evolution production possible at that moment.
this problem is in no way behind us.
ideas do not die.
not that they survive simply as archaisms.
at a given moment they may reach a scientific stage, and then lose that status or emigrate to other sciences.
their application and status, even their form and content, may change yet they retain something essential throughout the process, across the displacement, in the distribution of a new domain.
ideas are always reusable, because they have been usable before, but in the most varied of actual modes.
for, on the one hand, the relationships between animals are the object not only of science but also of dreams, symbolism, art and poetry, practice and practical use.
and on the other hand, the relationships between animals are bound up with the relations between man and animal, man and woman, man and child, man and the elements, man and the physical and microphysical universe.
the twofold idea series structure crosses a scientific threshold at a certain moment but it did not start there and it does not stay there, or else crosses over into other sciences, animating, for example, the human sciences, serving in the study of dreams, myths, and organizations.
the history of ideas should never be continuous it should be wary of resemblances, but also of descents or filiations it should be content to mark the thresholds through which an idea passes, the journeys it takes that change its nature or object.
yet the objective relationships between animals have been applied to certain subjective relations between man and animal, from the standpoint of a collective imagination or a faculty of social understanding.
jung elaborated a theory of the archetype as collective unconscious it assigns the animal a particularly important role in dreams, myths, and human collectivities.
the animal is inseparable from a series exhibiting the double aspect of progression regression, in which each term plays the role of a possible transformer of the libido metamorphosis.
a whole approach to the dream follows from this given a troubling image, it becomes a question of integrating it into its archetypal series.
that series may include feminine, masculine, or infantile sequences, as well as animal, vegetable, even elementary or molecular sequences.
in contrast to mesh natural history, man is now no longer the eminent term of the series that term may be an animal for man, the lion, crab, mesh raptors, or louse, in relation to a given act or function, in accordance with a given demand of the unconscious.
bachelard wrote a fine jungian book when he elaborated the ramified series of lautreamont, taking into account the speed coefficient of the metamorphoses and the degree of perfection of each term in relation to a pure aggressiveness as the principle of the series the serpent's fang, the horn of the rhinoceros, the dog's tooth, the owl's beak and higher up, the claw of the eagle or the vulture, the pincer of the crab, the legs of the louse, the suckers of the octopus.
throughout work a process of mimesis brings nature and culture together in its net, by means of analogies of proportion in which the series and their terms, and above all the animals occupying a middle position, assure cycles of conversion nature culture nature archetypes as analogical representations.
is it by chance that so strongly denounced the prestige accorded the imagination, the establishment of resemblances in a series, the imitation pervading the entire series and carrying it to its term, and the identification with this final term?
nothing is more explicit than levi strauss's famous texts on totemism transcend external resemblances to arrive at internal homologies.
it is no longer a question of instituting a serial organization of the imaginary, but instead a symbolic and structural order of understanding.
it is no longer a question of graduating resemblances, ultimately arriving at an identification between man and animal at the heart of a mystical participation.
it is a question of ordering differences to arrive at a correspondence of relations.
the animal is distributed according to differential relations or distinctive oppositions between species the same goes for human beings, according to the groups considered.
when analyzing the institution of the totem, we do not say that this group of people identifies with that animal species.
we say that what group a is to group species a'is to species this method is profoundly different from the preceding one given two human groups, each with its totem animal, we must discover the way in which the two totems entertain relations analogous to those between the two groups the crow is to the falcon.
the method also applies to man child, man woman relations, etc.
if we note, for example, that the warrior has a certain astonishing relation to the young woman, we refrain from establishing an imaginary series tying the two together instead, we look for a term effecting an equivalence of relations.
thus vernant can say that marriage is to the woman what war is to the man.
the result is a homology between the virgin who refuses marriage and the warrior who disguises himself as a woman.
in short, symbolic understanding replaces the analogy of proportion with an analogy of proportionality the serialization of resemblances with a structuration of differences the identification of terms with an equality of relations the metamorphoses of the imagination with conceptual metaphors the great intense, animal.
continuity between nature and culture with a deep rift distributing correspondences without resemblance between the two the imitation of a primal model with a mimesis that is itself primary and without a model.
a man can never say i am a bull, a but he can say i am to a woman what the bull is to a cow, i am to another man what the is to the sheep.
represents a great revolution the whole world becomes more rational.
levi strauss is not content to grant the mesh models structural all the prestige of a true classification system he relegates the serial model to the dark domain of sacrifice, which he depicts as illusory, even devoid of good sense.
the serial theme of sacrifice must yield to the structural theme of the institution of the totem, correctly understood.
but here, as in mesh natural history, many compromises are reached between archetypal series and symbolic structures.
none of the preceding satisfies us, from our restricted viewpoint.
we believe in the existence of very special becom ings animal traversing human beings and sweeping them away, affecting the animal no less than the human.
from to, all we hear about are vampires.
clearly does not account for these s, since it is designed precisely to deny or at least denigrate their existence a correspondence of relations does not add up when encounters of this kind pervading a society, it sees them only as phenomena of degradation representing a deviation from the true order and pertaining to the adventures of diachrony.
yet in his study of myths, levi strauss is always encountering these rapid acts by which a human becomes animal at the same time as the animal becomes.
becomes what?
human, or something else?
it is always possible to try to explain these blocks ofby a correspondence between two relations, but to do so most certainly impoverishes the phenomenon under study.
must it not be admitted that myth as a frame of classification is quite incapable of registering these s, which are more like fragments of tales?
must we not lend credence to jean duvignaud's hypothesis that there are anomic phenomena pervading societies that are not degradations of the mythic order but irreducible dynamisms drawing lines of flight and implying other forms of expression than those of myth, even if myth recapitulates them in its own terms in order to curb them?
does it not seem that alongside the two models, sacrifice and series, totem institution and structure, there is still room for something else, something more secret, more subterranean the and is expressed in tales instead of myths or rites?
a is not a correspondence between relations.
but neither is it a resemblance, an imitation, or, at the limit, an identification.
the whole intense, animal.
structuralist critique of the series seems irrefutable.
to become is not to progress or regress along a series.
above all, does not occur in the imagination, even when the imagination reaches the highest cosmic or dynamic level, as in jung or bachelard.
animal are neither dreams nor phantasies.
they are perfectly real.
but which reality is at issue here?
for if animal does not consist in playing animal or imitating an animal, it is clear that the human being does not really become an animal any more than the animal really becomes something else.
produces nothing other than itself.
we fall into a false alternative if we say that you either imitate or you are.
what is real is the itself, the block of, not the supposedly fixed terms through which that which becomes passes.
can and should be qualified as be coming animal even in the absence of a term that would be the animal become.
the animal of the human being is real, even if the animal the human being becomes is not and the other of the animal is real, even if that something other it becomes is not.
this is the point to clarify that a lacks a subject distinct from itself but also that it has no term, since its term in turn exists only as taken up in another of which it is the subject, and which coexists, forms a block, with the first.
this is the principle according to which there is a reality specific to the idea of a coexistence of very different dura tions, superior or inferior to ours, all of them in communication.
finally, is not an evolution, at least not an evolution by descent and filiation.
produces nothing by filiation all filiation is imaginary.
is always of a different order than filiation.
it concerns alliance.
if evolution includes any veritable s, it is in the domain of symbioses that bring into play beings of totally different scales and kingdoms, with no possible filiation.
there is a block of that snaps up the wasp and the orchid, but from which no wasp orchid can ever descend.
there is a block of that takes hold of the cat and baboon, the alliance between which is effected by a cool virus.
there is a block of between young roots and certain microorganisms, the alliance between which is effected by the materials synthesized in the leaves rhizosphere.
if there is originality in neoevolutionism, it is attributable in part to phenomena of this kind in which evolution does not go from something less differentiated to something more differentiated, in which it ceases to be a hereditary filiative evolution, communicative or contagious.
accordingly, the term we would prefer for this form of evolution between heterogeneous terms is, on the condition that is in no way confused with regression.
is, is creative.
to regress is to move in the direction of intense, animal.
something less differentiated.
but to involve is to form a block that runs its own line between the terms in play and beneath assignable relations.
neoevolutionism seems important for two reasons the animal is defined not by characteristics specific, generic, etc.
but by populations that vary from milieu to milieu or within the same milieu movement occurs not only, or not primarily, by filiative productions but also by transversal communications between heterogeneous populations.
is a rhizome, not a classificatory or mesh pedigree.
is certainly not imitating, or identifying with something neither is it regressing progressing neither is it corresponding, establishing corresponding relations neither is it producing, producing a filiation or producing through filiation.
is a verb with a consistency all its own it does not reduce to, or lead back to, appearing, being, equal ing, or producing.
a animal always involves a pack, a band, a population, a peopling, in short.
we have always known that.
it may very well be that other agencies, moreover very different from one another, have a different appraisal of the animal.
one may retain or extract from the animal certain characteristics species and genera, forms and functions, etc.
society and the state need animal characteristics to use for classifying people mesh natural history and science need characteristics in order to classify the animals themselves.
serialism and either graduate characteristics according to their resemblances, or order them according to their differences.
animal characteristics can be mythic or scientific.
but we are not interested in characteristics what interests us are modes of expansion, propagation, occupation, contagion, peopling.
i am legion.
the man fascinated by several wolves watching him.
what would a lone be?
or a whale, a louse, a rat, a fly?
beelzebub is the devil, but the devil as lord of the flies.
the is not fundamentally a characteristic or a certain number of characteristics it is a ing.
the louse is a lousing, and so on.
what is a cry independent of the population it appeals to or takes as its witness?
virginia woolfs experiences herself not as a monkey or a fish but as a troop of monkeys, a school of fish, according to her variable relations of with the people she approaches.
we do not wish to say that certain animalsin packs.
we want nothing to do with ridiculous evolutionary classifications a la lorenz, according to which there are inferior packs and superior societies.
what we are saying is that every animal is fundamentally a band, a pack.
that it has pack modes, rather than characteristics, even if further distinctions within these modes are called for.
it is at this point that the human being encounters the animal.
we do not become animal without a fascination for the intense, animal.
pack, for a fascination for the outside?
or is the that fascinates us already related to a dwelling within us?
in one of his masterpieces, h. p. lovecraft recounts the story of randolph carter, who feels his self reel and who experiences a fear worse than that of annihilation carters of forms both human and non human, vertebrate and invertebrate, conscious and mindless, animal and vegetable.
and more, there were carters having nothing in common with earthly life, but moving outrageously amidst backgrounds of other ts and systems and galaxies and cosmic continua.
merging with nothingness is peaceful but to be aware of existence and yet to know that one is no longer a definite being distinguished from other beings, nor from all of therunning through us, that is the nameless summit of agony and dread.
hofmannsthal, or rather lord chandos, becomes fascinated with a people of dying rats, and it is in him, through him, in the interstices of his disrupted self that the soul of the animal bares its teeth at monsterous fate not pity, but unnatural participation.
then a strange imperative wells up in him either stop writing, or write like a rat.
if the writer is a, it is because writing is a, writing is traversed by strangethat are notwriter, butrat, insect, s, etc.
we will have to explain why.
many suicides by writers are explained by these unnatural participations, these unnatural nuptials.
writers are because they experience the animal as the only population before which they are responsible in principle.
the german preromantic karl philipp moritz feels responsible not for the calves that die but before the calves that die and give him the incredible feeling of an unknown natureaffect?
for the affect is not a personal feeling, nor is it a characteristic it is the effectuation of a power of the pack that throws the self into upheaval and makes it reel.
who has not known the violence of these animal sequences, which uproot one from humanity, if only for an instant, making one scrape at one's bread like a rodent or giving one the yellow eyes of a feline?
a fearsome calling us toward unheard of these are not regressions, although fragments of regression, sequences of regression may enter in.
we must distinguish three kinds of animals.
first, individuated animals, family pets, sentimental,  animals each with its own petty history, my cat, my dog.
these animals invite us to regress, draw us into a narcissistic contemplation, and they are the only kind of animal psychoanalysis understands, the better to discover a daddy, a mommy, a little brother behind them when psychoanalysis talks about animals, animals learn to laugh anyone who likes cats or dogs is a fool.
and then there is a second kind animals with characteristics or attributes genus, classification, or state animals animals as they are treated in the great divine myths, intense, animal.
in such a way as to extract from them series or structures, archetypes or models jung is in any event profounder than freud.
finally, there are more demonic animals, pack or affect animals that form a, a, a population, a tale.
or once again, cannot any animal be treated in all three ways?
there is always the possibility that a given animal, a louse, a cheetah or an elephant, will be treated as a pet, my little beast.
and at the other extreme, it is also possible for any animal to be treated in the mode of the pack or swarm that is our way, fellow even the cat, even the dog.
and the shepherd, the animal trainer, the devil, may have a favorite animal in the pack, although not at all in the way we were just discussing.
yes, any animal is or can be a pack, but to varying degrees of vocation that make it easier or harder to discover the, or grade, an animal contains actually or virtually according to the case.
schools, bands, herds, populations are not inferior social forms they are affects and powers, that grip every animal in a just as powerful as that of the human being with the animal.
jorge luis borges, an author renowned for his excess of culture, botched at least two books, only the titles of which are nice first, a universal history of infamy, because he did not see the's fundamental distinction between deception and treasonanimal are there from the start, on the treason side second, his manual de zoolog'iafantastica, where he not only adopts a composite and bland image of myth but also eliminates all of the problems of the pack and the corresponding animal of the human being we have deliberately excluded from this manual legends of transformations of the human being, the lobizbn, the were, etc.
borges is interested only in characteristics, even the most fantastic ones, whereas know that werewolves are bands, and vampires too, and that bands transform themselves into one another.
but what exactly does that mean, the animal as band or pack?
does a band not imply a filiation, bringing us back to the reproduction of given characteristics?
how can we conceive of a peopling, a propagation, a that is without filiation or hereditary production?
a without the unity of an ancestor?
it is quite simple everybody knows it, but it is discussed only in secret.
we oppose epidemic to filiation, contagion to heredity, peopling by contagion to sexual reproduction, sexual production.
bands, human or animal, proliferate by contagion, epidemics, battlefields, and catastrophes.
like hybrids, which are in themselves sterile, born of a sexual union that will not reproduce itself, but which begins over again every time, gaining that much more ground.
unnatural participations or nuptials are the true nature spanning the kingdoms of nature.
propagation by epidemic, by contagion, has nothing to do with filiation by heredity, even if the two themes intermingle and require each other.
the vampire intense, animal.
does not filiate, it infects.
the difference is that contagion, epidemic, involves terms that are entirely heterogeneous for example, a human being, an animal, and a bacterium, a virus, a molecule, a microorganism.
or in the case of the truffle, a tree, a fly, and a pig.
these combinations are neither genetic nor structural they are interkingdoms, unnatural partici pations.
that is the only way nature operatesagainst itself.
this is a far cry from filiative production or hereditary reproduction, in which the only differences retained are a simple duality between sexes within the same species, and small modifications across generations.
for us, on the other hand, there are as many sexes as there are terms in symbiosis, as many differences as elements contributing to a process of contagion.
we know that many beings pass between a man and a woman they come from different worlds, are borne on the wind, form rhizomes around roots they cannot be understood in terms of production, only in terms of the universe does not function by filiation.
all we are saying is that animals are packs, and that packs form, develop, and are transformed by contagion.
these with heterogeneous terms, cofunctioning by contagion, enter certainit is there that human beings effect theiranimal.
but we should not confuse these dark s, which stir what is deepest within us, with organizations such as the institution of the family and the state apparatus.
we could cite hunting societies, war societies, secret societies, crime societies, etc.
animal are proper to them.
we will not expect to find filiative regimes of the family type or modes of classification and attribution of the state or pre state type or even serial organizations of the religious type.
despite appearances and possible confusions, this is not the site of origin or point of application for myths.
these are tales, or narratives and statements of it is therefore absurd to establish a hierarchy even of animal collectivities from the standpoint of a whimsical evolutionism according to which packs are lower on the scale and are superseded by state or familial societies.
on the contrary, there is a difference in nature.
the origin of packs is entirely different from that of families and states they continually work them from within and trouble them from without, with other forms of content, other forms of expression.
the pack is simultaneously an animal reality, and the reality of the animal of the human being contagion is simultaneously an animal peopling, and the propagation of the animal peopling of the human being.
the hunting machine, the war machine, the crime machine entail all kinds ofanimal that are not articulated in myth, still less in totemism.
dumezil showed thatof this kind pertain essentially to the man of war, but only insofar as he is external to families and states, insofar as he upsets filiations and classifications.
the war machine is always exterior to the state, even when the state uses it, intense, animal.
appropriates it.
the man of war has an entire that implies, celerity, ubiquity, metamorphosis and treason, the power of affect.
men, bear men, wildcat men, men of every animality, secret brother hoods, animate the battlefields.
but so do the animal packs used by men in battle, or which trail the battles and take advantage of them.
and together they spread contagion.
there is a complex aggregate the animal of men, packs of animals, elephants and rats, winds and tempests, bacteria sowing contagion.
a single furor.
war contained zoological sequences before it became bacteriological.
it is in war, famine, and epidemic that werewolves and vampires proliferate.
any animal can be swept up in these packs and the correspondingcats have been seen on the battlefield, and even in armies.
that is why the distinction we must make is less between kinds of animals than between the different states according to which they are integrated into family institutions, state apparatuses, war machines, etc.
and what is the relation of the writing machine and the musical machine toanimal?
our first principle was pack and contagion, the contagion of the pack, such is the path animal takes.
but a second principle seemed to tell us the opposite wherever there is, you will also find an exceptional individual, and it is with that individual that an alliance must be made in order to become animal.
there may be no such thing as a lone, but there is a leader of the pack, a master of the pack, or else the old deposed head of the pack now ing alone, there is the loner, and there is the demon.
has his favorite, theben, and only becomesthrough his relation with him, in a kind of alliance of love, then of hate.
in its entirety is one of the greatest masterpieces of captain ahab has an irresistible whale, but one that bypasses the pack or the school, operating directly through a monstrous alliance with the unique, the leviathan, there is always a pact with a demon the demon sometimes appears as the head of the band, sometimes as the loner on the sidelines of the pack, and sometimes as the higher power puissance of the band.
the exceptional individual has many possible positions.
kafka, another great author of realanimal, sings of mouse society but josephine, the mouse singer, sometimes holds a privileged position in the pack, sometimes a position outside the pack, and sometimes slips into and is lost in the anonymity of the collective statements of the pack.
in short, every animal has its anomalous.
let us clarify that every animal swept up in its pack or has its anomalous.
it has been noted that the origin of the word anomal anomalous, an adjective that has fallen into disuse in french, is very different from that of anormal abnormal a normal, a latin intense, animal.
adjective lacking a noun in french, refers to that which is outside rules or goes against the rules, whereas an omalie, a greek noun that has lost its adjective, designates the unequal, the coarse, the rough, the cutting edge of the abnormal can be defined only in terms of characteristics, specific or generic but the anomalous is a position or set of positions in relation to a therefore use the old adjective anomalous to situate the positions of the exceptional individual in the pack.
it is always with the anomalous, or josephine, that one enters into alliance to become animal.
it does seem as though there is a contradiction between the pack and the loner between mass contagion and preferential alliance between pure and the exceptional individual between the aleatory aggregate and a predestined choice.
and the contradiction is real ahab chooses, in a choosing that exceeds him and comes from elsewhere, and in so doing breaks with the law of the whalers according to which one should first pursue the pack.
penthesilea shatters the law of the pack, the pack of women, the pack of she dogs, by choosing achilles as her favorite enemy.
yet it is by means of this anomalous choice that each enters into his or her animal, the dog of penthesilea, the whale of captain ahab.
we know quite well that the contradictions are real but that real contradictions are not just for laughs.
for the whole question is this what exactly is the nature of the anomalous?
what function does it have in relation to the band, to the pack?
it is clear that the anomalous is not simply an exceptional individual that would be to equate it with the family animal or pet, the ized animal as psychoanalysis sees it, as the image of the father, etc.
ahab's is not like the little cat or dog owned by an elderly woman who honors and cherishes it.
lawrence's tortoise has nothing to do with a sentimental or domestic relation.
lawrence is another of the writers who leave us troubled and filled with admiration because they were able to tie their writing to real and unheard of but the objection is raised against lawrence your tortoises are not real!
and he answers possibly, but my is, my is real, even and especially if you have no way of judging it, because you're just little house dogs.
the anomalous, the preferential element in the pack, has nothing to do with the preferred, domestic, and psychoanalytic individual.
nor is the anomalous the bearer of a species presenting specific or generic characteristics in their purest state nor is it a model or unique specimen nor is it the perfection of a type incarnate nor is it the eminent term of a series nor is it the basis of an absolutely harmonious correspondence.
the anomalous is neither an individual nor a species it has only affects, it has neither familiar or subjectified feelings, nor specific or significant characteristics.
human tenderness is as foreign to it intense, animal.
as human classifications.
lovecraft applies the term outsider to this thing or entity, the thing, which arrives and passes at the edge, which is linear yet multiple, teeming, seething, swelling, foaming, spreading like an mesh communicable diseases, this nameless horror.
if the anomalous is neither an individual nor a species, then what is it?
it is a phenomenon, but a phenomenon of bordering.
this is our hypothesis a is defined not by the elements that compose it in extension, not by the characteristics that compose it in comprehension, but by the lines and dimensions it encompasses in intension.
if you change dimensions, if you add or subtract one, you change thus there is a borderline for each it is in no way a center but rather the enveloping line or farthest dimension, as a function of which it is possible to count the others, all those lines or dimensions constitute the pack at a given moment beyond the borderline, the changes nature.
that is what captain ahab says to his first mate i have no personal history with, no revenge to take, any more than i have a myth to play out but i do have a squirt!
is neither an individual nor a genus he is the borderline, and i have to strike him to get at the pack as a whole, to reach the pack as a whole and pass beyond it.
the elements of the pack are only imaginary dummies, the characteristics of the pack are only symbolic entities all that counts is the borderlinethe anomalous.
to me, the mesh beluga whale is that wall, shoved near to me.
the white wall.
sometimes i think there is naught beyond.
but'tis enough.
that the anomalous is the borderline makes it easier for us to understand the various positions it occupies in relation to the pack or the it borders, and the various positions occupied by a fascinated self moi.
it is now even possible to establish a classification system for packs while avoiding the pitfalls of an evolutionism that sees them only as an inferior collective stage instead of taking into consideration the particularthey bring into play.
in any event, the pack has a borderline, and an anomalous position, whenever in a given space an animal is on the line or in the act of drawing the line in relation to which all the other members of the pack will fall into one of two halves, left or right a peripheral position, such that it is impossible to tell if the anomalous is still in the band, already outside the band, or at the shifting boundary of the band.
sometimes each and every animal reaches this line or occupies this dynamic position, as in a swarm of mosquitoes, where each individual moves randomly unless it sees the rest of in the same half space then it hurries to re enter the group.
thus stability is assured in catastrophe by a barrier.
'sometimes it is a specific animal that draws and occupies the borderline, as leader of the pack.
sometimes the borderline is defined or doubled by a being of another nature that no longer belongs to the pack, or never belonged to it, and that intense, animal.
represents a power of another order, potentially acting as a threat as well as a trainer, outsider, etc.
in any case, no band is without this phenomenon of bordering, or the anomalous.
it is true that bands are also undermined by extremely varied forces that establish in them interior centers of the conjugal, familial, or state type, and that make them pass into an entirely different form of sociability, replacing pack affects with family feelings or state intelligibilities.
the center, or internal black holes, assumes the principal role.
this is what evolutionism sees as progress, this adventure also befalls bands of humans when they reconstitute group familialism, or even authoritarianism or pack fascism.
have always held the anomalous position, at the edge of the fields or woods.
they haunt the fringes.
they are at the borderline of the village, or between villages.
the important thing is their affinity with alliance, with the pact, which gives them a status opposed to that of filiation.
the relation with the anomalous is one of alliance.
the has a relation of alliance with the demon as the power of the anomalous.
the old time theologians drew a clear distinction between two kinds of curses against sexuality.
the first concerns sexuality as a process of filiation transmitting the original sin.
but the second concerns it as a power of alliance inspiring illicit unions or abominable loves.
this differs significantly from the first in that it tends to prevent procreation since the demon does not himself have the ability to procreate, he must adopt indirect means for example, being the female succubus of a man and then the male incubus of a woman, to whom he transmits the man's semen.
it is true that the relations between alliance and filiation come to be regulated by laws of marriage, but even then alliance retains a dangerous and contagious power.
leach was able to demonstrate that despite all the exceptions that seemingly disprove the rule, the belongs first of all to a group united to the group over which he or she exercises influence only by alliance thus in a matrilineal group we look to the father's side for the or witch.
and there is an entire evolution depending on whether the relation of alliance acquires permanence or assumes political weight.
in order to produce werewolves in your own family it is not enough to resemble a, or tolike a the pact with the devil must be coupled with an alliance with another family, and it is the return of this alliance to the first family, the reaction of this alliance on the first family, that produces werewolves by feedback effect.
a fine tale by erckmann and chatrian, hugues, assembles the traditions concerning this complex situation.
the contradiction between the two themes, contagion through the animal as pack, and pact with the anomalous as exceptional being, is progressively fading.
it is with good reason that leach links the two concepts of intense, animal.
alliance and contagion, pact and epidemic.
analyzing he writes witch influence was thought to be transmitted in the food that the women prepared.
kachin witchcraft is contagious rather than hereditary.
it is associated with affinity, not filiation.
alliance or the pact is the form of expression for an infection or epidemic constituting the form of content.
blood is of the order of contagion and alliance.
it can be said that animal is an affair of because it implies an initial relation of alliance with a demon the demon functions as the borderline of an animal pack, into which the human being passes or in which his or her takes place, by contagion this itself implies a second alliance, with another human group this new borderline between the two groups guides the contagion of animal and human being within the pack.
there is an entire politics ofanimal, as well as a politics, which is elaborated in that are neither those of the family nor of religion nor of the state.
instead, they express groups, or groups that are oppressed, prohibited, in revolt, or always on the fringe of recognized institutions, groups all the more secret for being extrinsic, in other words, anomic.
if animal takes the form of a temptation, and of monsters aroused in the imagination by the demon, it is because it is accompanied, at its origin as in its undertaking, by a rupture with the central institutions that have established themselves or seek to become established.
let us cite pell mell, not as mixes to be made, but as different cases to be studiedanimal in the war machine, wildmen of all kinds the war machine indeed comes from without, it is extrinsic to the state, which treats the warrior as an anomalous poweranimal in crime societies, leopard men, crocodile men when the state prohibits tribal and local warsanimal in riot groups when the church and state are faced with peasant movements containing a component, which they repress by setting up a whole trial and legal system designed to expose pacts with the devilanimal in asceticism groups, the grazing anchorite or wild beast anchorite the asceticism machine is in an anomalous position, off to the side of the church, and disputes the church's pretension to set itself up as an imperial institutionanimal in societies practicing sexual initiation of the sacred deflowerer type, men, goat men, etc.
who claim an alliance superior and exterior to the order of families families have to win from them the right to regulate their own alliances, to determine them according to relations of complementary lines of descent, and to domesticate this unbridled power of alliance.
the politics ofanimal remains, of course, extremely ambiguous.
for societies, even mesh ethnology, have always appropriated intense, animal.
thesein order to break them, reduce them to relations of totemic or symbolic correspondence.
states have always appropriated the war machine in the form of national armies that strictly limit theof the warrior.
the church has always burned, or reintegrated anchorites into the toned down image of a series of saints whose only remaining relation to animals is strangely familiar, domestic.
families have always warded off the demonic alliance gnawing at them, in order to regulate alliances among themselves as they see fit.
we have seen serve as leaders, rally to the cause of despotism, create exorcism, pass over to the side of the family and descent.
but this spells the death of the, and also the death of we have seen spawn nothing more than a big domestic dog, as in henry miller's damnation it would be better to feign, to pretend to be an animal, a dog for example, and catch the bone thrown to me from time to time or fitzgerald's i will try to be a correct animal though, and if you throw me a bone with enough meat on it i may even lick your hand.
invert faust's formula so that is what it was, the form of the traveling scholar?
a mere poodle?
exclusive importance should not be attached to animal.
rather, they are segments occupying a median region.
on the near side, we encounter woman, child woman, more than any other, possesses a special introductory power it is not so much that women are witches, but that sorcery proceeds by way of this woman.
on the far side, we findel ementary, cellular, molecular, and even imperceptible.
toward what void does the witch's broom lead?
and where is leading ahab so silently?
lovecraft's hero encounters strange animals, but he finally reaches the ultimate regions of a continuum inhabited by unnameable waves and unfindable particles.
science fiction has gone through a whole evolution taking it from animal, vegetable, and mineraltoof bacteria, viruses, molecules, and things imperceptible.
the properly musical content of music is plied bywoman, child, animal however, it tends, under all sorts of influences, having to do also with the instruments, to become progressively more molecular in a kind of cosmic lapping through which the inaudible makes itself heard and the imperceptible appears as such no longer the songbird, but the sound molecule.
if the experimentation with drugs has left its mark on everyone, even nonusers, it is because it changed the perceptive coordinates of space time and introduced us to a universe of percepts in which molecular take over where animal leave off.
intense, animal.
books clearly illustrate this evolution, in which the affects of a dog, for example, are succeeded by those of the molecular, of water, air, etc.
a man totters from one door to the next and disappears into thin air.
all i can tell you is that we are fluid, luminous beings made of fibers.
all so called initiatory journeys include these thresholds and doors where itself becomes, and where one changes depending on the hour of the world, the circles of hell, or the stages of a journey that sets scales, forms, and cries in variation.
from the howling of animals to the wailing of elements and particles.
thus packs, continually transform themselves into each other, cross over into each other.
werewolves become vampires when they die.
this is not surprising, since they are the same thing.
it is defined not by its elements, nor by a center of unification or comprehension.
it is defined by the number of dimensions which are is not divisible, it cannot lose or gain a dimension without changing its nature.
since its variations and dimensions are immanent to it, it amounts to the same thing to say that each is already composed of heterogeneous terms in symbiosis, is continually transforming itself into a string of other, according to its thresholds and doors.
for example, the man's pack of wolves also becomes a swarm of bees, and a field of anuses, and a collection of small holes and tiny ulcerations.
the theme of contagion all these heterogeneous elements compose the symbiosis and if we imagined the position of a fascinated self, it was the void toward which it leans, stretching to the breaking pointthe continuation of another that works it and strains it from the inside.
in fact, the self is only a threshold, a door, a between two states.
each is defined by a borderline functioning as anomalous, but there is a string of borderlines, a continuous line of borderlines.
fibers following which the following changes.
and at each threshold or door, a new pact?
a fiber stretches from a human to an animal, from a human or an animal to molecules, from molecules to particles, and so on to the imperceptible.
every fiber is a universe fiber.
a fiber strung across borderlines constitutes a or of it is evident that the anomalous, the outsider, has several functions not only does it border each, of which it determines the temporary or local stability with the highest number of dimensions possible under the circum stances, not only is it the precondition for the alliance necessary to, but it also carries the transformations of or crossings of always farther down the.
is the white wall bordering the pack he is also the demonic term of the alliance intense, animal.
finally, he is the terrible fishing line with nothing on the other end, the line that crosses the wall and drags the captain.
where?
into the void.
the error we must guard against is to believe that there is a kind of logical order to this string, these crossings or transformations.
it is already going too far to postulate an order descending from the animal to the vegetable, then to molecules, to particles.
each is symbiotic its ties together animals, plants, microorganisms, mad particles, a whole galaxy.
nor is there a preformed logical order to these, the man's wolves, bees, anuses, little scars.
of course, sorcery always codifies transformations.
take a novel steeped in the traditions of magick in a first pact, the man of the fringes gets the devil to agree to make his wishes come true, with the stipulation that a lock of his hair turn red each time he gets a wish.
we are in the hair, hair is the borderline.
the man himself takes a position on the wolves'borderline, as leader of the pack.
then when he no longer has a single human hair left, a second pact makes him become himself it is an endless since he is only vulnerable one day in the year.
we are aware that between the hair and the it is always possible to induce an order of resemblance red like the fur of a but the resemblance remains quite secondary the of the transformation is black, with one white hair.
in fact, there is a first, of hair, taken up in a red fur and a second, of wolves, which in turn takes up the animal of the man.
between the two, there is threshold and fiber, symbiosis of or passage between.
that is how we operate.
not following a logical order, but following alogical consistencies or compatibilities.
the reason is simple.
it is because no one, not even god, can say in advance whether two borderlines will string together or form a fiber, whether a given will or will not cross over into another given, or even if given heterogeneous elements will enter symbiosis, will form a consistent, or cofunctioning, susceptible to transformation.
no one can say where the will pass will it let itself get bogged down and fall back to the  family animal, a mere poodle?
or will it succumb to another danger, for example, turning into a line of abolition, annihilation, self destruction, ahab, ahab.?
we are all too familiar with the dangers of the, and with its ambiguities.
the risks are ever present, but it is always possible to have the good fortune of avoiding them.
case by case, we can tell whether the line is consistent, in other words, whether they effectively function in symbiosis, whether the are effectively transformed through theof passage.
let us take an example as simple as start practicing piano again.
is it an  return to childhood?
is it intense, animal.
a way of dying, in a kind of sonorous abolition?
is it a new borderline, an active line that will bring otherentirely different from or re a pianist, that will induce a transformation of all of the precedingto whichwas prisoner?
is it a way out?
is it a pact with the devil?
schizoanalysis, or pragmatics, has no other meaning make a rhizome.
but you do n't know what you can make a rhizome with, you do n't know which subterranean stem is effectively going to make a rhizome, or enter a, people your desert.
so experiment.
that's easy to say?
although there is no preformed logical order toand, there are criteria, and the important thing is that they not be used after the fact, that they be applied in the course of events, that they be sufficient to guide us through the dangers.
if are defined and transformed by the borderline that determines in each instance their number of dimensions, we can conceive of the possibility of laying them out on a, the borderlines succeeding one another, forming a broken line.
it is only in appearance that a of this kind reduces the number of dimensions for it gathers in all the dimensions to the extent that flatwhich nonetheless have an increasing or decreasing number of dimensionsare inscribed upon it.
it is in grandiose and simplified terms that lovecraft attempted to pronounce the final word then the waves increased in strength and sought to improve his understanding, reconciling him to the multiform entity of which his present fragment was an infinitesimal part.
they told him that every figure of space is but the result of the intersection by a of some corresponding figure of one more dimensionas a square is cut from a cube, or a circle from a sphere.
the cube and sphere, of three dimensions, are thus cut from corresponding forms of four dimensions, which men know only through guesses and dreams and these in turn are cut from forms of five dimensions, and so on up to the dizzy and reachless heights of archetypal infin ity.
far from reducing the'number of dimensions to two, the of consistency cuts across them all, intersects them in order to bring into coexistence any number of, with any number of dimensions.
the of consistency is the intersection of all concrete forms.
therefore allare written like'drawings on this of consistency, which is the ultimate door providing a way out for them.
this is the only criterion to prevent them from bogging down, or veering into the void.
the only question is does a given reach that point?
can a given flatten and conserve all its dimensions in this way, like a pressed flower that remains just as ae dry?
lawrence, in his tortoise, moves from the most obstinate animal dynamism to the abstract, pure geometry of scales and cleavages of division, without, however, losing any of the dynamism he pushes tortoise all intense, animal.
the way to the of consistency.
everything becomes imperceptible, everything is imperceptible on the of consistency, which is nevertheless precisely where the imperceptible is seen and heard.
it is the planomenon, or the rhizosphere, the criterium and still other names, as the number of dimensions increases.
at dimensions, it is called the hypersphere, the mechanosphere.
it is the abstract figure, or rather, since it has no form itself, the abstract machine of which each concrete is a, a, a segment, a vibration.
and the abstract machine is the intersection of them all.
waves are vibrations, shifting borderlines inscribed on the of consistency as so many abstractions.
the abstract machine of the waves.
in the waves, virginia woolfwho made all of her life and work a passage, a, all kinds ofbetween ages, sexes, elements, and king domsintermingles seven characters, bernard, neville, louis, jinny, rhoda, suzanne, and percival.
but each of these characters, with his or her name, its individuality, designates a for example, bernard and the school offish.
each is simultaneously in this and at its edge, and crosses over into the others.
percival is like the ultimate enveloping the greatest number of dimensions.
but he is not yet the of consistency.
although rhoda thinks she sees him rising out of the sea, no, it is not he.
when the white arm rests upon the knee it is a triangle now it is uprighta column now a fountain.
behind it roars the sea.
it is beyond our reach.
each advances like a wave, but on the of consistency they are a single abstract wave whose vibration propagates following a or traversing the entire each chapter of woolfnovel is preceded by a meditation on an aspect of the waves, on one of their hours, on one of their memories of a theologian.
theology is very strict on the following point there are no werewolves, human beings cannot become animal.
that is because there is no transformation of essential forms they are inalienable and only entertain relations of analogy.
the devil and the witch, and the pact between them, are no less real for that, for there is in reality a local movement that is properly diabolical.
theology distinguishes two cases, used as models during the inquisition that of ulysses'companions, and that of diomedes'companions, the imaginary vision and the spell.
in the first, the subject believes him or herself to be transformed into an animal, pig, ox, or, and the observers believe it too but this is an internal local movement bringing sensible images back to the imagination and bouncing them off external meanings.
in the second, the devil assumes real animal bodies, even transporting the accidents and affects befalling them to other bodies for example, a cat or a that has been taken over by the intense, animal.
devil can receive wounds that are relayed to an exactly corresponding part of a mesh human body.
this is a way of saying that the human being does not become animal in reality, but that there is nevertheless a demonic reality of the animal of the human being.
therefore it is certain that the demon performs local transports of all kinds.
the devil is a transporter he transports humors, affects, or even bodies the inquisition brooks no compromises on this power of the devil the witch's broom, or the devil take you.
but these transports cross neither the barrier of essential forms nor that of substances or subjects.
there is another, altogether different, problem concerning the laws of nature that has to do not with demonology but with alchemy, and above all physics.
it is the problem of accidental forms, distinct from both essential forms and determined subjects.
for accidental forms are susceptible to more and less more or less charitable, but also more or less white, more or less warm.
a degree of heat is a perfectly individuated warmth distinct from the substance or the subject that receives it.
a degree of heat can enter into composition with a degree of whiteness, or with another degree of heat, to form a third unique individuality distinct from that of the subject.
what is the individuality of a day, a season, an event?
a shorter day and a longer day are not, strictly speaking, extensions but degrees proper to extension, just as there are degrees proper to heat, color, etc.
an accidental form therefore has a latitude constituted by a certain number of composable individuations.
a degree, an intensity, is an individual, a haecceity that enters into composition with other degrees, other intensities, to form another individual.
can latitude be explained by the fact that the subject participates more or less in the accidental form?
but do these degrees of participation not imply a flutter, a vibration in the form itself that is not reducible to the properties of a subject?
moreover, if intensities of heat are not composed by addition, it is because one must add their respective subjects it is the subjects that prevent the heat of the whole from increasing.
all the more reason to effect distributions of intensity, to establish latitudes that are deformedly deformed, speeds, slownesses, and degrees of all kinds corresponding to a body or set of bodies taken as longitude a cartography.
in short, between substantial forms and determined subjects, between the two, there is not only a whole operation of demonic local transports but a natural play of haecceities, degrees, intensities, events, and accidents that compose individuations totally different from those of the well formed subjects that receive them.
substantial or essential forms have been critiqued in many different ways.
spinoza's approach is radical arrive at elements that no longer have either form or function, that are abstract in this intense, animal.
sense even though they are perfectly real.
they are distinguished solely by movement and rest, slowness and speed.
they are not atoms, in other words, finite elements still endowed with form.
nor are they indefinitely divisible.
they are infinitely small, ultimate parts of an actual infinity, laid out on the same of consistency or composition.
they are not defined by their number since they always come in infinities.
however, depending on their degree of speed or the relation of movement and rest into which they enter, they belong to a given individual, which may itself be part of another individual governed by another, more complex, relation, and so on to infinity.
there are thus smaller and larger infinities, not by virtue of their number, but by virtue of the composition of the relation into which their parts enter.
thus each individual is an infinite, and the whole of nature is a of perfectly individuated the of consistency of nature is like an immense abstract machine, abstract yet real and individual its pieces are the variousand individuals, each of which groups together an infinity of particles entering into an infinity of more or less interconnected relations.
there is therefore a unity to the of nature, which applies equally to the inanimate and the animate, the artificial and the natural.
this has nothing to do with a form or a figure, nor with a design or a function.
its unity has nothing to do with a ground buried deep within things, nor with an end or a project in the mind of god.
instead, it is a upon which everything is laid out, and which is like the intersection of all forms, the machine of all functions its dimensions, however, increase with those of the of individualities it cuts across.
it is a fixed, upon which things are distinguished from one another only by speed and slowness.
a of or opposed to analogy.
the one is said with a single meaning of all the multiple.
being expresses in a single meaning all that differs.
what we are talking about is not the unity of substance but the infinity of the modifications that are part of one another on this unique of life.
the never ending debate between cuvier and geoffroy saint hilaire both agree at least in denouncing resemblances, or imaginary, sensible analogies, but in cuvier, scientific definition concerns the relations between organs, and between organs and functions.
cuvier thus takes analogy to the scientific stage, making it an analogy of proportionality.
the unity of the, according to him, can only be a unity of analogy, therefore a transcendent unity that cannot be realized without fragmenting into distinct branches, according to irreducible, uncrossable, heterogeneous compositions.
baer would later add according to noncommunicating types of development and differentiation.
the is a hidden of organization, a structure or genesis.
geoffroy has an entirely different intense, animal.
point of view because he goes beyond organs and functions to abstract elements he terms anatomical, even to particles, pure materials that enter into various combinations, forming a given organ and assuming a given function depending on their degree of speed or slowness.
speed and slowness, movement and rest, tardiness and rapidity subordinate not only the forms of structure but also the types of development.
this approach later reappears in an evolutionist framework, with perrier's tachygenesis and differential rates of growth in allometry species as kinematic entities that are either precocious or retarded.
even the question of fertility is less one of form and function than speed do the paternal chromosomes arrive early enough to be incorporated into the nuclei?
in any case, there is a pure of, , composition, upon which everything is given, upon which unformed elements and materials dance that are distinguished from one another only by their speed and that enter into this or that individuated depending on their connections, their relations of movement.
a fixed of life upon which everything stirs, slows down or accelerates.
a single abstract animal for all thethat effectuate it.
a unique of consistency or composition for the cephalo pod and the vertebrate for the vertebrate to become an octopus or cuttlefish, all it would have to do is fold itself in two fast enough to fuse the elements of the halves of its back together, then bring its pelvis up to the nape of its neck and gather its limbs together into one of its extremities, like a clown who throws his head and shoulders back and walks on his head and hands.
plication.
it is no longer a question of organs and functions, and of a transcendent that can preside over their organization only by means of analogical relations and types of divergent development.
it is a question not of organization but of composition not of development or differentiation but of movement and rest, speed and slowness.
it is a question of elements and particles, which do or do not arrive fast enough to effect a passage, a or jump on the same of pure and if there are in fact jumps, rifts between s, it is not by virtue of their essential irreducibility but rather because there are always elements that do not arrive on time, or arrive after everything is over thus it is necessary to pass through fog, to cross voids, to have lead times and delays, which are themselves part of the of even the failures are part of the we must try to conceive of this world in which a single fixedwhich we shall call a of absolute immobility or absolute movementis traversed by nonformal elements of relative speed that enter this or that individuated depending on their degrees of speed and slowness.
a of consistency peopled by anonymous matter, by infinite bits of impalpable matter entering into varying connections.
intense, animal.
children are doubtless, in each case we must simultaneously consider factors of, , and animal and child refrains seem to be territorial therefore they are not music.
but when music lays hold of the refrain and deterritorializes it, and deterrito rializes the voice, when it lays hold of the refrain and sends it racing off in a rhythmic sound block, when the refrain becomes schumann or debussy, it is through a system of melodic and harmonic coordinates by means of which music reterritorializes upon itself, qua music.
conversely, we shall see that in certain cases even the animal refrain possesses forces of much more intense than animal silhouettes, postures, and colors.
we must therefore take a number of factors into consideration relative territorialities, their respective s, and their correlative s, several types of them for example, intrinsicsuch as musical coordinates, and extrinsic ones such as the deterioration of the refrain into a hackneyed formula, or music into a ditty.
the fact that there is no without a special should prompt us to rethink the abiding correlation between the molar and the molecular no flow, no molecular escapes from a molar formation without molar components accompanying it, forming passages or perceptible landmarks for the imperceptible processes.
the woman, the child of music are present in the problem of the machining of the voice.
machining the voice was the first musical operation.
as we know, the problem was resolved in western music in two different ways, in italy and in england the head voice of the countertenor, who sings above his voice, or whose voice operates inside the sinuses and at the back of the throat and the palate without relying on the diaphragm or passing through the bronchial tubes and the stomach voice of the castrati, stronger, more voluminous, more languid, as if they gave carnal matter to the imperceptible, impalpable, and aerial.
dominique fernandez wrote a fine book on this subject he shows, fortunately refraining from any psychoanalytic discussion of a link between music and castration, that the musical problem of the machinery of the intense, animal.
* peter brueghel, the elder, painted a nativity, painted a baby new born!
among the words.
armed men, savagely armed men armed with pikes, halberds and swords whispering men with averted faces got to the heart of the matter as they talked to the potbellied greybeard center the butt of their comments, looking askance, showing their amazement at the scene, features like the more stupid german soldiers of the late war but the baby afrom an illustrated catalogue in colors lies naked on his mother's knees it is a scene, authentic enough, to be witnessed frequently among the poor i salute the man brueghel who painted what he saw many times no doubt among his own kids but not of course in this setting the crowned and mitred heads of the men, one of them black, who had come, obviously from afar highwaymen?
by the rich robes they had on offered to propitiate their gods their hands were loaded with gifts they had eyes for visions in those days and saw, saw with their proper eyes, these things to the envy of the vulgar soldiery he painted the bustle of the scene, the unkernpt straggling hair of the old man in the middle, his sagging lips incredulous that there was so much fuss about such a simple thing as a baby born to an old man out of a girl and a pretty girl at that but the gifts!
works of art, where could they have picked them up or more properly have stolen them?
how else to honor an old man, or a woman?
the soldiers'ragged clothes, mouths open, their knees and feet broken from years of war, hard campaigns, their mouths watering for the feast which had been provided peter brueghel the artist saw it from the two sides the imagination must be served and he served dispassionately it is no mortal sin to be poor anything but this featureless tribe that has the money now staring into the atom, completely blind without grace or pity, as if they were so many shellfish.
the artist, brueghel, saw them.
the suits of his peasants were of better stuff, hand woven, than we can boast.
have come in our time to the age of shoddy, the men are shoddy, driven by their bosses, inside and outside the job to be done, at a profit.
to whom?
but not true of the portuguese mason, his own boss in the new country who is building a wall for me, moved by oldworld knowledge of what is virtuous.
that stuff they sell you in the stores nowadays, no good, break in your hands.
that manufactured stuff, from the factory, break in your hands, no care what they turn out.
the gospel according to st. matthew, chapter, verse, now the birth of jesus christ was on this wise when a§ his mother miriam was espoused to joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the holy ghost.
the king james version, of course, reads mary but it is recalled that dr. williams often referred to the mother of jesus as miriam.
cf.
the hebrew miryam as root for both names.
ed.
then joseph her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a publick example, was minded to put her away privily.
but while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the lord, appeared to him in a dream, saying, joseph, thou son of david, fear not to take unto thee miriam thy wife for that which is conceived in her is of the holy ghost.
luke.
but mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart.
no woman is virtuous who does not give herself to her lover forthwith dear bill i am told by a dear friend in paris, who is married to henri matisse's daughter, and who is the one vibrant head i have met in europe, that france today is ruled by the gendarme and the concierge.
in socialist denmark i knew a highly intelligent author, a woman, who had come to america and there had a child by a wretched scribbler.
poor and forsaken she had returned to copenhagen, where she earned her niggard indigence doing review for the, and giving occasional lectures on middle kngltfth and early danish.
she ed in the slummy part of that beautiful dry, trying to support a wonderful boy, sturdy, loving, and very mat culine.
it was my joy to bring him oranges, chocolate, and thom precious morsels which his mother could not afford.
she told hit that the socialist police had called on her one night, asking why she had not paid her taxes to the government.
poverty wait if you reply.
do you recall the epitaph on thomas churchyard!
tomb stone?
.
poverty and obscurity doth thin tomb close.
a week later they returned, threatening to remove nature and have it impounded by the government.
when lite igftlfi pleaded that if she gave what kroners she had her little boy would starve, the police said'we went to the vine handel and learned from the proprietor that you had benight a boil it in tit wine if you can afford to drink wine you certainly can pay your taxes.
she then said am so poor, and so driven to despair by it that i had to have a bottle of wine to relieve me of my melancholia.
i am quite sure too that people only have the kind of government that their bellies crave.
furthermore, i cannot cure one soul in the earth.
plato took three journeys to dionysius, the tyrant of syracuse, and once was almost killed and on another occasion was nearly sold into slavery because he imagined that he influenced a devil to model his tyranny upon the republic.
seneca was the teacher of nero, and aristotle tutored alexander of macedon.
what did they teach?
we are content here because it is cheap my wife can eat cha teaubriand for seven pesetas, about or cents.
going to the shops in the morning is a ritual there is the greeting from the woman who runs the panaderia, and the salutation courtesy always eases the spirit and relieves the mesh nervous system, from the man or his wife at the lecheria where you get milk, and an expansive smile from the humble woman who sells you three pesetas worth of helio, ice, edward paterson has grown older the dog of his thoughts has shrunk to no more than a passionate letter to a woman, a woman he had neglected to put to bed in the past.
and went on ing and writing letters and tending his flower garden, cutting his grass and trying to get the young to foreshorten their, errors in the use of words which he had found so difficult, the errors he had made in the use of the poetic line.
die unicorn against a millefieurs background, there's nothing sentimental about the technique of writing.
it can't be learned, you'll say, by a fool.
but any young man with a mind bursting to get out, to get down on a page even a clean sentence gets courage from an older man who stands ready to help him to talk to.
a flight of birds, all together, seeking their nests in the season a flock before dawn, small birds that slepen al the night with open ye, moved by desire, passionately, they have come a long way, commonly.
now they separate and go by pairs each to his appointed mating.
the colors of their plumage are undecipherable in the sun's glare against the sky but the old man's mind is stirred by the white, the yellow, the black as if he could see them there.
their presence in the air again calms him.
though he is approaching death he is possessed by many poems.
flowers have always been his friends, even in paintings and tapestries which have lain through the past in museums jealously guarded, treated against moths.
they draw him imperiously to witness them, make him think of bus schedules and how to avoid the irreverent to refresh himself at the sight direct from the th century what the old women or the young or men or boys wielding their needles to put in her green thread correctly beside the purple, myrtle beside holly and the brown threads beside together as the cartoon has plotted it for them.
all together, working together all the birds together.
the birds and leaves are designed to be woven in his mind eating and all together for his purposes the aging body with the deformed great toe nail makes itself known coming to search me out with a rare smile among the thronging flowers of that field where the unicorn is penned by a low wooden fence in april!
the same month when at the foot of the post he saw the man dig up the red snake and kill it with a spade.
godwin told me its tail would not stop wriggling till after the sun goes down he knew everything or nothing and died insane when he was still a young man the self direction has been changed the serpent its tail in its mouth the river has returned to its beginnings and backward and forward it tortures itself within me until time has been washed finally under and i knew all or enough it became me.
the times are not heroic since then equals.
but they are cleaner and freer of disease the mind rotted within them we'll say the serpent has its tail in its mouth again!
the all wise serpent now i come to the small flowers that cluster about the feet of my beloved the hunt of the god of love of virgin birth the mind is the demon drives us.
well, would you prefer it to turn vegetable and wear no beard?
shall we speak of love seen only in a mirror no replica?
reflecting only her impalpable spirit?
which is she whom i see and not touch her flesh?
the unicorn roams the forest of all true lovers'minds.
they hunt it down.
bow wow!
sing hey the green holly!
every married man carries in his head the beloved and sacred image of a virgin whom he has whored but the ing fiction a tapestry silk and wool shot with silver threads a milk white one horned beast i, paterson, the king self saw the lady through the rough woods outside the palace walls among the stench of sweating horses and gored hounds yelping with pain the heavy breathing pack to see the dead beast brought in at last across the saddlebow among the mesh quercus.
paterson, keep your pecker up whatever the detail!
anywhere is everywhere you can learn from poems that an empty head tapped on sounds hollow in any language!
the figures are of heroic size.
the woods are cold though it is summer the lady's gown is heavy and reaches to the grass.
all about, small flowers fill the scene.
a second beast is brought in wounded.
and a third, survivor of the chase, lies down to rest a while, his regal neck fast in a jeweled collar.
a hound lies on his back eviscerated by the beast's single horn.
take it or leave it, if the hat fits put it on.
small flowers seem crowding to be in on the act the white sweet rocket, on its branching stem, four petals one near the other to fill in the detail from frame to frame without perspective touching each other on the canvas make up the picture the cranky violet like a knight in chess, the cinque foil, yellow faced this is a french or flemish tapestry the sweetsmelling primrose growing close to the ground, that poets have made famous in england, i cannot tell it all slippered flowers crimson and white, balanced to hang on slender bracts, cups evenly arranged upon a stern, foxglove, the eglantine or wild rose, pink as a lady's ear lobe when it shows beneath the hair, campanella, blue and purple tufts small as forget me not among the leaves.
yellow centers, crimson petals and the reverse, dandelion, love in a mist, cornflowers, thistle and others the names and perfumes i do not know.
the woods are rilled with holly i have told you, this is a fiction, pay attention, the yellow flag of the french fields is here and a congeries of other flowers as well daffodils and gentian, the daisy, columbine myrtle, dark and light and calendulas the mesh acacia in the morning breeze outside her window where one branch moves quietly undulating upward and about and back and forth does not remind me more than of an old woman's smile a fragment of the tapestry preserved on an end wall presents a young woman with rounded brow lost in the woods or hiding announced that is, the presentation by the blowing of a hunter's horn where he stands all but completely hid in the leaves.
she interests me by her singularity, her courtly dress among the leaves, listening!
the expression of her face, where she stands removed from the others the virgin and the whore, an identity, both for sale to the highest bidder!
and who bids higher than a lover?
come out of it if you call yourself a woman.
i give you instead, a young man sharing the female world in hell's despight, graciously once on a time on a time caw!
caw!
caw!
the crows cry!
in february!
in february they begin it.
she did not want toto be an old woman to wear a china doorknob in her vagina to hold her womb up but she came to that, resourceful, what?
he was the first to turn her up and never left her till he left her with chud, as any soldier would until the camp broke up.
she maybe was tagged as osamu dazai and his saintly sister would have it she was old when she saw her grandson you young people think you know everything.
she spoke in her cockney accent and paused looking at me hard the past is for those that ed in the past.
cessa!
learning with age to sleep my life away saying the measure intervenes, to measure is all we know, a choice among the measures the measured dance unless the scent of a rose startle us anew equally laughable is to assume to know nothing, a chess game massively, materially, compounded!
yo ho!
taho!
we know nothing and can know nothing but the dance, to dance to a measure contrapuntally, satyrically, the tragic foot.
appendix book six these fragments of a projected sixth part of fater son were found among dr. williams'papers after his death.
jan. paterson the intimate name you were known as to your intimates in that realm was the genius, before your enemies got hold of you you knew the falls and read greek fluently it did not stop the bullet that killed you close after dawn at weehawken that september dawn you wanted to organize the country so that we should all stick together and make a little money a rich man john jay, james madison.
let's read about it!
words are the burden of poems, poems are made of words realm?
original typescript reads reaks.
i the dandelion lion's tooth in effigy of faience, old hudson river work, might as well have been of paterson a crude cheap jar made to contain pickled peaches or elder berries casually with all the art of domestic husbandry or the kitchen shelf a royal blue curving on itself to make a simple flower design to decorate my bedroom wall come out of itself to be an abstract design without design to be anything but itself for a chinese poet who drowned embracing the reflection of the moon in the river or the image of a frosty elm outlined in est of all pantomimes dance, dance!
loosen your limbs from that art which holds you faster than the drugs which hold you faster dandelion on my bedroom wall.
*for this reason as in quoting lord grey it is quite certain that nations not actively threatened are at least several generations behind themselves militarily so aesthetically they are more than several generations behind themselves and it is very much too bad, it is so very much more exciting and satisfactory for everybody if one can have contemporaries, if all one's contemporaries could be one's contemporaries.
there is almost not an interval.
for a very long time everybody refuses and then almost without a pause almost everybody accepts.
in the history of the refused in the arts composition as explanation and literature the rapidity of the change is always startling.
now the only difficulty with the volte face concerning the arts is this.
when the acceptance comes, by that acceptance the thing created becomes a classic.
it is a natural phenomena a rather extraordinary natural phenomena that a thing accepted becomes a classic.
and what is the characteristic quality of a classic.
the characteristic quality of a classic is that it is beautiful.
now of course it is perfectly true that a more or less first rate work of art is beautiful but the trouble is that when that first rate work of art becomes a classic because it is accepted the only thing that is important from then on to the majority of the acceptors the enormous majority, the most intelligent majority of the acceptors is that it is so wonderfully beautiful.
of course it is wonderfully beautiful, only when it is still a thing irritating annoying stimulating then all quality of beauty is denied to it.
of course it is beautiful but first all beauty in it is denied and then all the beauty of it is accepted.
if every one were not so indolent they would realise that beauty is beauty even when it is irritating and stimulating not only when it is accepted and classic.
of course it is extremely difficult nothing more so than to remember back to its not being beautiful once it has become beautiful.
this makes it so much more difficult to realise its beauty when the work is being refused and prevents every one from realising that they were convinced that beauty was denied, once the work is accepted.
automatically with the acceptance of the time sense comes the recognition of the beauty and once the beauty is accepted the beauty never fails any one.
beginning again and again is a natural thing even when there is a series.
beginning again and again and again explaining composition and time is a natural thing.
it is understood by this time that everything is the same except composition and time, composition and the time of the composition and the time in the composition.
everything is the same except composition and as the composition is different and always going to be different everything is not the same.
everything is not the same as the time when of the composition and the time in the composition is different.
the composition is different, that is certain.
the composition is the thing seen by every one ing in the ing they composition as explanation are doing, they are the composing of the composition that at the time they are ing is the composition of the time in which they are ing.
it is that that makes ing a thing they are doing.
nothing else is different, of that almost any one can be certain.
the time when and the time of and the time in that composition is the natural phenomena of that composition and of that perhaps every one can be certain.
no one thinks these things when they are making when they are creating what is the composition, naturally no one thinks, that is no one formulates until what is to be formulated has been made.
composition is not there, it is going to be there and we are here.
this is some time ago for us naturally.
the only thing that is different from one time to another is what is seen and what is seen depends upon how everybody is doing everything.
this makes the thing we are looking at very different and this makes what those who describe it make of it, it makes a composition, it confuses, it shows, it is, it looks, it likes it as it is, and this makes what is seen as it is seen.
nothing changes from generation to generation except the thing seen and that makes a composition.
now the few who make writing as it is made and it is to be remarked that the most decided of them are those that are prepared by preparing, are prepared just as the world around them is prepared and is preparing to do it in this way and so if you do not mind i will again tell you how it happens.
naturally one does not know how it happened until it is well over beginning happening.
each period of ing differs from any other period of ing not in the way life is but in the way life is conducted and that authentically speaking is composition.
after life has been conducted in a certain way everybody knows it but nobody knows it, little by little, nobody knows it as long as nobody knows it.
any one creating the composition in the arts does not know it either, they are conducting life and that makes their composition what it is, it makes their work compose as it does.
their influence and their influences are the same as that of all of their contemporaries only it must always be remembered that the analogy is not obvious until as i say the composition of a time has become so pronounced that it is past and the artistic composition of it is a classic.
and now to begin as if to begin.
composition is not there, it is going to be there and we are here.
this is some time ago for us naturally.
there is something to be added afterwards.
composition as explanation just how much my work is known to you i do not know.
i feel that perhaps it would be just as well to tell the whole of it.
in beginning writing i wrote a book called three es this was written in.
wrote a negro story called melanctha.
in that there was a constant recurring and beginning there was a marked direction in the direction of being in the present although naturally i had been accustomed to past present and future, and why, because the composition forming around me was a prolonged present.
a composition of a prolonged present is a natural composition in the world as it has been these thirty years it was more and more a prolonged present.
i created then a prolonged present naturally i knew nothing of a continuous present but it came naturally to me to make one, it was simple it was clear to me and nobody knew why it was done like that, i did not myself although naturally to me it was natural.
after that i did a book called the making of americans it is a long book about a thousand pages.
here again it was all so natural to me and more and more complicatedly a continuous present.
a continuous present is a continuous present.
i made almost a thousand pages of a continuous present.
continuous present is one thing and beginning again and again is another thing.
these are both things.
and then there is using everything.
this brings us again to composition this the using everything.
the using everything brings us to composition and to this composition.
a continuous present and using everything and beginning again.
in these two books there was elaboration of the complexities of using everything and of a continuous present and of beginning again and again and again.
in the first book there was a groping for a continuous present and for using everything by beginning again and again.
there was a groping for using everything and there was a groping for a continuous present and there was an inevitable beginning of beginning again and again and again.
having naturally done this i naturally was a little troubled with it when i read k. i became then like the others who read it.
one does, you know, excepting that when i reread it myself i lost myself in it again.
then i said to myself this time it will be different and i began.
i did not begin again i just began.
in this beginning naturally since i at once went on and on very soon there were pages and pages and pages more and more elaborated creat composition as explanation ing a more and more continuous present including more and more using of everything and continuing more and more beginning and beginning and beginning.
i went on and on to a thousand pages of it.
in the meantime to naturally begin i commenced making portraits of anybody and anything.
in making these portraits i naturally made a continuous present an including everything and a beginning again and again within a very small thing.
that started me into composing anything into one thing.
so then naturally it was natural that one thing an enormously long thing was not everything an enormously short thing was also not everything nor was it all of it a continuous present thing nor was it always and always beginning again.
naturally i would then begin again.
i would begin again i would naturally begin.
i did naturally begin.
this brings me to a great deal that has been begun.
and after that what changes what changes after that, after that what changes and what changes after that and after that and what changes and after that and what changes after that.
the problem from this time on became more definite.
it was all so nearly alike it must be different and it is different, it is natural that if everything is used and there is a continuous present and a beginning again and again if it is all so alike it must be simply different and everything simply different was the natural way of creating it then.
in this natural way of creating it then that'it was simply different everything being alike it was simply different, this kept on leading one to lists.
lists naturally for a while and by lists i mean a series.
more and more in going back over what was done at this time i find that i naturally kept simply different as an intention.
whether there was or whether there was not a continuous present did not then any longer trouble me there was or there was, and using everything no longer troubled me if everything is alike using everything could no longer trouble me and beginning again and again could no longer trouble me because if lists were inevitable if series were inevitable and the whole of it was inevitable beginning again and again could not trouble me so then with nothing to trouble me i very completely began naturally since everything is alike making it as simply different naturally as simply different as possible.
i began doing natural phenomena what i call natural phenomena and natural phenomena naturally everything being alike natural phenomena are composition as explanation making things be naturally simply different.
this found its culmination later, in the beginning it began in a center confused with lists with series with geography with returning portraits and with particularly often four and three and often with five and four.
it is easy to see that in the beginning such a conception as everything being naturally different would be very inarticulate and very slowly it began to emerge and take the form of anything, and then naturally if anything that is simply different is simply different what follows will follow.
so far then the progress of my conceptions was the natural progress entirely in accordance with my epoch as i am sure is to be quite easily realised if you think over the scene that was before us all from year to year.
as i said in the beginning, there is the long history of how every one ever acted or has felt and that nothing inside in them in all of them makes it connectedly different.
by this i mean all this.
the only thing that is different from one time to another is what is seen and what is seen depends upon how everybody is doing everything.
it is understood by this time that everything is the same except composition and time, composition and the time of the composition and the time in the composition.
everything is the same except composition and as the composition is different and always going to be different everything is not the same.
so then i as a contemporary creating the composition in the beginning was groping toward a continuous present, a using everything a beginning again and again and then everything being alike then everything very simply everything was naturally simply different and so i as a contemporary was creating everything being alike was creating everything naturally being naturally simply different, everything being alike.
this then was the period that brings me to the period of the beginning of.
everything being alike everything naturally would be simply different and war came and everything being alike and everything being simply different brings everything being simply different brings it to romanticism.
romanticism is then when everything being alike everything is naturally simply different, and romanticism.
then for four years this was more and more different even though this was, was everything alike.
everything alike naturally everything was simply different and this is and was romanticism and this is and was composition as explanation war.
everything being alike everything naturally everything is different simply different naturally simply different.
and so there was the natural phenomena that was war, which had been, before war came, several generations behind the contemporary composition, because it became war and so completely needed to be contemporary became completely contemporary and so created the completed recognition of the contemporary composition.
every one but one may say every one became consciously became aware of the existence of the authenticity of the modern composition.
this then the contemporary recognition, because of the academic thing known as war having been forced to become contemporary made every one not only contemporary in act not only contemporary in thought but contemporary in self con sciousness made every one contemporary with the modern composition.
and so the art creation of the contemporary composition which would have been outlawed normally outlawed several generations more behind even than war, war having been brought so to speak up to date art so to speak was allowed not completely to be up to date, but nearly up to date, in other words we who created the expression of the modern composition were to be recognized before we were dead some of us even quite a long time before we were dead.
and so war may be said to have advanced a general recognition of the expression of the contemporary composition by almost thirty years.
and now after that there is no more of that in other words there is peace and something comes then and it follows coming then.
and so now one finds oneself interesting oneself in an equilibriation, that of course means words as well as things and distribution as well as between themselves between the words and themselves and the things and themselves, a distribution as distribution.
this makes what follows what follows and now there is every reason why there should be an arrangement made.
distribution is interesting and equilibration is interesting when a continuous present and a beginning again and again and using everything and everything alike and everything naturally simply different has been done.
after all this, there is that, there has been that that there is a composition and that nothing changes except composition the composition and the time of and the time in the composition.
the time of the composition is a natural thing and the time in the composition as explanation composition is a natural thing it is a natural thing and it is a contemporary thing.
the time of the composition is the time of the composition.
it has been at times a present thing it has been at times a past thing it has been at times a future thing it has been at times an endeavour at parts or all of these things.
in my beginning it was a continuous present a beginning again and again and again and again, it was a series it was a list it was a similarity and everything different it was a distribution and an equilibration.
that is all of the time some of the time of the composition.
now there is still something else the time sense in the composition.
this is what is always a fear a doubt and a judgement and a conviction.
the quality in the creation of expression the quality in a composition that makes it go dead just after it has been made is very troublesome.
the time in the composition is a thing that is very troublesome.
if the time in the composition is very troublesome it is because there must even if there is no time at all in the composition there must be time in the composition which is in its quality of distribution and equilibration.
in the beginning there was the time in the composition that naturally was in the composition but time in the composition comes now and this is what is now troubling every one the time in the composition is now a part of distribution and equilibration.
in the beginning there was confusion there was a continuous present and later there was romanticism which was not a confusion but an extrication and now there is either succeeding or failing there must be distribution and equilibration there must be time that is distributed and equilibrated.
this is the thing that is at present the most troubling and if there is the time that is at present the most troublesome the time sense that is at present the most troubling is the thing that makes the present the most troubling.
there is at present there is distribution, by this i mean expression and time, and in this way at present composition is time that is the reason that at present the time sense is troubling that is the reason why at present the time sense in the composition is the composition that is making what there is in composition.
and afterwards.
now that is all.
portrait of mabel dodge at the in the autobiography printed in this collection, he relates how she met the dodge, how she visited her at the in florence where she wrote this portrait, and how mabel had copies printed and bound in assorted florentine wall papers.
returning to america in, mabel brought a pact age of these little pamphlets with her and gave them away to anybody she thought would be interested enough to say or write something about the author.
it was in this manner that i became acquainted with the worf of and a year later, again through mabel, i met her.
the portrait has been reprinted in camera work, special number, june, , in portraits and prayers, , and again in mabel dodge luhan's european experiences,.
the days are wonderful and the nights are wonderful and the life is pleasant.
bargaining is something and there is not that success.
the intention is what if application has that accident results are reappearing.
they did not darken.
that was not an adulteration.
so much breathing has not the same place when there is that much beginning.
so much breathing has not the same place when the ending is lessening.
so much breathing has the same place and there must not be so much suggestion.
there can be there the habit that there is if there is no need of resting.
the absence is not alternative.
any time is the half of all the noise and there is not that disappointment.
there is no distraction.
an argument is clear.
packing is not the same when the place which has all that is not emptied.
there came there the hall and this was not the establishment.
it had not all the meaning.
blankets are warmer in the summer and the winter is not lonely.
this does not assure the forgetting of the intention when there has been and there is every way to send some.
there does not happen to be a dislike for water.
this is not heartening.
as the expedition is without the participation of the question there will be nicely all that energy.
they can arrange that the little color is not bestowed.
they can leave it in regaining that intention.
it is mostly repaid.
there can be an irrigation.
they can have the whole paper and they send it in some package.
it is not inundated.
a bottle that has all the time to stand open is not so clearly shown when there is green color there.
this is not the only way to change it.
a little raw potato and then all that softer does happen to show that there has been enough.
it changes the expression.
it is not darker and the present time is the best time to agree.
this portrait of mabel dodge which has been feeling is what has the appetite and the patience and the time to stay.
this is not collaborating.
all the attention is when there is not enough to do.
this does not determine a question.
the only reason that there is not that pressure is that there is a suggestion.
there are many going.
a delight is not bent.
there had been that little wagon.
there is that precision when there has not been an imagination.
there has not been that kind abandonment.
nobody is alone.
if the spread that is not a piece removed from the bed is likely to be whiter then certainly the sprinkling is not drying.
there can be the message where the print is pasted and this does not mean that there is that esteeem.
there can be the likelihood of all the days not coming later and this will not deepen the collected dim version.
it is a gnarled division that which is not any obstruction and the forgotten swelling is certainly attracting, it is attracting the whiter division, it is not sinking to be growing, it is not darkening to be disappearing, it is not aged to be annoying.
there can not be sighing.
this is this bliss.
not to be wrapped and then to forget undertaking, the credit and then the resting of that interval, the pressing of the sounding when there is no trinket is not altering, there can be pleasing classing clothing.
a sap that is that adaptation is the drinking that is not increasing.
there can be that lack of quivering.
that does not originate every invitation.
there is not wedding introduction.
there is not all that filling.
there is the climate that is not existing there is that plainer.
there is the likeliness lying in liking likely likeliness.
there is that dispensation.
there is the paling that is not reddening, there is the reddening that is not reddening, there is that protection, there is that destruction, there is not the present lessening there is the argument of increasing.
there is that that is not that which is that resting.
there is not that occupation.
there is that particular half of directing that there is that particular whole direction that is not all the measure of any combination.
gliding is not heavily moving.
looking is not vanishing.
laughing is not evaporating.
there can be the climax.
there can be the same dress.
there can be an old dress.
there can be the way there is that way there is that which is not that charging what is a regular way of paying.
there has been william.
all the time is likely.
there is the condition.
there has been admitting.
there is not the print.
there is that smiling.
there at the villa curonia is the season.
there is that where there is not that which is where there is what there is which is beguiling.
there is a paste.
abandon a garden and the house is bigger.
this is not smiling.
this is comfortable.
there is the comforting of predilection.
an open object is establishing the loss that there was when the vase was not inside the place.
it was not wandering.
a plank that was dry was not disturbing the smell of burning and altogether there was the best kind of sitting there could never be all the edging that the largest chair was having.
it was not pushed.
it moved then.
there was not that lifting.
there was that which was not any contradiction and there was not the bland fight that did not have that regulation.
the contents were not darkening.
there was not that hesitation.
it was occupied.
that was not occupying any exception.
any one had come.
there was that distribution.
there was not that velvet spread when there was a pleasant head.
the color was paler.
the moving regulating is not a distinction.
the place is there.
likely there is not that departure when the whole place that has that texture is so much in the way.
it is not there to stay.
it does not change that way.
a pressure is not later.
there is the same.
there is not the shame.
there is that pleasure.
in burying that game there is not a change of name.
there is not perplexing and co ordination.
the toy that is not round has to be found and looking is not straining such relation.
there can be that company.
it is not wider when the length is not longer and that does make that way of staying away.
every one is exchanging returning.
there is not a prediction.
the whole day is that way.
any otne is resting to say that the time which is not reverberating is acting in partaking.
a walk that is not stepped where the floor is covered is not in the place where the room is entered.
the whole one is the same.
there is not any stone.
there is the wide door that is narrow on the floor.
there is all that place.
there is that desire and there is no pleasure and the place is filling the only space that is placed where all the piling is not adjoining.
there is not that distraction.
praying has intention and relieving that situation is not solemn.
there comes that way.
portrait of mabel dodge the time that is the smell of the plain season is not showing the water is running.
there is not all that breath.
there is the use of the stone and there is the place of the stuff and there is the practice of expending questioning.
there is not that differentiation.
there is that which is in time.
there is the room that is the largest place when there is all that is where there is space.
there is not that perturbation.
the legs that show are not the certain ones that have been used.
all legs are used.
there is no action meant.
the particular space is not beguiling.
there is that participation.
it is not passing any way.
it has that to show.
it is why there is no exhalation.
there is all there is when there has all there.
has where there is what there is.
that is what is done when there is done what is done and the union is won and the division is the explicit visit.
there is not all of any visit.
have they attacked mary.
he giggled a political caricature this poem originally appeared in vanity fair, june.
owing to lac of space thirty five lines were omitted.
when the poem was printed as a pamphlet later in, illustrated with a political caricature of henry mcbride by jules pascin, these lines were restored.
a note in the pamphlet advises the reader that this wort has been referred to as a portrait of henry mcbride, the noted art critic it is in fact, the note continues, a genre picture and mr. mcbride is but one of the personages.
the'political'quality of's caricature will not be misapprehended by students of her worf.
can you be more confusing by laughing.
do say yes.
we are extra.
we have the reasonableness of a woman and we say we do not like a room.
we wish we were married.
why do you believe in me.
including all that is sold, you mean three pictures, including all that is sold why cannot you give me that.
i do give it to you.
thank you, i was only joking.
but i do mean it.
thank you very much.
can you swim in a lake.
we can.
then do so.
fine, have you an automobile.
page the queen has.
we asked for one.
they cannot send it now.
cannot they.
we will see.
in memory of the englishwoman.
we will buy it together.
have they attacked mary not that englishwoman.
no not that time or that one.
we wish to go stamping.
can they accept us.
we marry.
they ask.
ii in the middle of the exercise.
we exercise.
we are successful.
can you speak.
the dog.
can you bear to tear the skirt.
lighting.
we can see to the lighting.
can a jew be wild.
a great many settlers have mercy.
of course they do to me.
you are proud.
i am proud of my courage.
can you find me in a home.
we can all find you in a hole.
i hope not.
then keep warm.
i cannot have that announcement.
very well then elect him.
we can be suggestive.
can you finish for me.
he giggled in the midst of refusing i have been asked to go on.
we hope so.
page can you wish me to think.
in the next name you'mean the wife in the next name there is a mention of a ring.
in the next name they have means.
what can you do to relate it.
many ready papers many papers are taken there.
you mean they made the mistake.
they made the mistake of choosing that silver.
little silver little silver.
i'm coming to grieve.
i cannot find a real dressmaker.
neither can i. in the little while in which i say stop it you are not spoiled.
page can you think of lingering.
you mean as to weight.
why yes i feel that.
can you think of dwindling.
can you.
in the midst of the fortnight what was the wish.
we did not say others.
nor did he.
indeed he was not observed.
you mean in the time.
in the day time and at night.
and in the evening.
have they attacked mary percentage believing in everything.
i can go.
don't remind the english.
you mean of everything.
it is wonderful the way i am not interested.
what can you do.
i can answer any question.
very well answer this.
it is found out.
not by me.
leave me to see.
i told you that you were told it is outrageous to mention a hotel.
can you please me with kisses.
in france we are found.
we are found in france.
i cannot destroy heaven.
that is not the word you meant to use.
i meant to say that being indeed convinced of the necessity of seeing them swim i believe in following.
can you think in meanings to sell.
all separately.
i can answer for the news.
in the midst of that rain.
in the midst of that rain there was a wing.
and he was not sorry.
who can be sorry there.
we are.
yes lamb.
roger.
not necessarily a deception.
can you speak to me.
i can speak to you.
i believe in the book about england.
in leaning grass in leaning grass.
yes in leaning grass.
can you widen rivers there.
can you see cook.
can you hear it turn.
i used to say where.
now it is in machinery in that machinery.
they do not deplore what the war.
can you candidly say that of him.
have they attacked mary why am i so sleepy.
can you excuse any one?
like fifty boxes of matches wax matches which burn very well and strike very well and have no smell.
do you mean less smell than others.
you say he is that sort of a person.
he has been here again.
and asked about pitchers.
i can he ask about pitchers.
officers do not kiss soldiers.
what do officers kiss.
officers kiss the cross.
indeed they do.
so do soldiers in passing.
pass again.
chrysanthemum.
was his friend a friend.
can you see him.
particularly today.
feel me.
a sentimental face.
can they say no excuse.
can they say selfish brothers.
do they say we are pleased to have been taught.
no they he giggled do not do so they have that very negligible quality, the station of lyons.
we were there.
and books yes books.
you did not understand a laundry woman.
yes women porters.
of course women porters.
why should we be proud.
because it is foolish.
it is very foolish to be wrong.
in that case may i beg to refer to it.
you may.
the french are polite.
as a wife has a cow a love story published in paris in with lithographic illustrations by juan gris, this is an excellent example of's adverbial and participial style.
the reader will find a clue to the passage about the fifteenth of october in the opening pages of the autobiography in this collection.
nearly all of it to be as a wife has a cow, a love story.
all of it to be as a wife has a cow, all of it to be as a wife has a cow, a love story.
as to be all of it as to be a wife as a wife has a cow, a love story, all of it as to be all of it as a wife all of it as to be as a wife has a cow a love story, all of it as a wife has a cow as a wife has a cow a love story.
has made, as it has made as it has made, has made has to be as a wife has a cow, a love story.
has made as to be as a wife has a cow a love story.
as a wife has a cow, as a wife has a cow, a love story.
has to be as a wife has a cow a love story.
has made as to be as a wife has a cow a love story.
when he can, and for that when he can, for that.
when he can and for that when he can.
for that.
when he can.
for that when he can.
for that.
and when he can and for that.
or that, and when he can.
for that and when he can.
and to in six and another.
and to and in and six and another.
and to and in and six and another.
and to in six and and to and in and six and another.
and to and in and six and another.
and to and six and in and another and and to and six and another and and to and in and six and and to and six and in and another.
in came in there, came in there come out of there.
in came in come out of there.
come out there in came in there.
come out of there and in and come out of there.
came in there, come out of there.
feeling or for it, as feeling or for it, came in or come in, or come out of there or feeling as feeling or feeling as for it.
as a wife has a cow.
came in and come out.
as a wife has a cow a love story.
as a love story, as a wife has a cow, a love story.
not and now, now and not, not and now, by and by not and now, as not, as soon as not not and now, now as soon now now as soon, now as soon as soon as now.
just as soon just now just now just as soon just as soon as now.
just as soon as now.
as a wife has a cow and in that, as and in that, in that and and in that, so that, so that and in that, and in that and so that and as for that and as for that and that.
in that.
in that and and for that as for that and in that.
just as soon and in that.
in that as that and just as soon.
just as soon as that.
even now, now and even now and now and even now.
not as even now, therefor, even now and therefor, therefor and even now and even now and therefor even now.
so not to and moreover and even now and therefor and moreover and even now and so and even now and therefor even now.
do they as they do so.
and do they do so.
we feel we feel.
we feel or if we feel if we feel or if we feel.
we feel or if we feel.
as it is made made a day made a. day or two made a day, as it is made a day or two, as it is made a day.
made a day.
made a day.
not away a day.
by day.
as it is made a day.
on the fifteenth of october as they say, said anyway, what is it as they expect, as they expect it or as they expected it, as they expect it and as they expected it, expect it or for it, expected it and it is expected of it.
as they say said anyway.
what is it as they expect for it, what is it and it is as they expect of it.
what is it.
what is it the fifteenth of october as they say as they expect or as they expected as they expect for it.
what is it as they say the fifteenth of october as they say and as expected of it, the fifteenth of october as they say, what is it as expected of it.
what is it and the fifteenth of october as they say and expected of it.
and prepare and prepare so prepare to prepare and prepare to prepare and prepare so as to prepare, so to prepare and prepare to prepare to prepare for and to prepare for it to prepare, to prepare for it, in preparation, as preparation in preparation by preparation.
they will be too busy afterwards to prepare.
as preparation prepare, to prepare, as to preparation and to prepare.
out there.
have it as having having it as happening, happening to have it as having, having to have it as happening.
happening and have it as happening and having it happen as happening and having to have it happen as happening, and my wife has a cow as now, my wife having a cow as now, my wife having a cow as now and having a cow as now and having a cow and having a cow now, my wife has a cow and now.
my wife has a cow.
in geography and plays,.
preciosilla was published in composition as explanation,.
writes, in lectures in america the strict discipline that i had given myself, the absolute refusal of never using a word that was not an exact word all through the tender buttons and w'hat i may call the early spanish and geography and play sic period finally resulted in things lite.
in an extraordinary melody of words and a melody of excitement in tyiowing that had done this thing.
there is reason to believe that these two poems paint a portrait and mate an attempt to recapture the rhythm of the same flamenco dancer.
susie asado sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet tea.
susie asado.
sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet tea.
susie asado.
susie asado which is a told tray sure.
a lean on the shoe this means slips slips hers.
when the ancient light grey is clean it is yellow, it is a silver seller.
this is a please this is a please there are the saids to jelly.
these are the wets these say the sets to leave a crown to.
is short for incubus, a pot.
a pot is a beginning of a rare bit of trees.
trees tremble, the old vats are in bobbles, bobbles which shade and shove and render clean, render clean must.
drink pups.
drink pups drink pups lease a sash hold, see it shine and a bobolink has pins.
it shows a nail.
what is a nail.
a nail is unison.
sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet tea.
in the win all the band beagles which have cousin lime sign and arrange a weeding match to presume a certain point to exstate to exstate a certain pass lint to exstate a lean sap prime lo and shut shut is life.
bait, bait, tore, tore her clothes, toward it, toward a bit, to ward a sit, sit down in, in vacant surely lots, a single mingle, bait and wet, wet a single establishment that has a lily lily grow.
come to the pen come in the stem, come in the grass grown water.
lily wet lily wet while.
this is so pink so pink in stammer, a long bean which shows bows is collected by a single curly shady, shady get, get set wet bet.
it is a snuff a snuff to be told and have can wither, can is it and sleep sleeps knot, it is a lily scarf the pink and blue yellow, not blue not odour sun, nobles are bleeding bleeding two seats two seats on end.
why is grief.
grief is strange black.
sugar is melting.
we will not swim.
preciosilla please be please be get, please get wet, wet naturally, naturally in weather.
could it be fire more firier.
could it be so in ate struck.
could it be gold up, gold up stringing, in it while while which is hanging, hanging in dingling, dingling in pinning, not so.
not so dots large dressed dots, big sizes, less laced, less laced diamonds, diamonds white, diamonds bright, diamonds in the in the light, diamonds light diamonds door diamonds hanging to be four, two four, all before, this bean, lessly, all most, a best, willow, vest, a green guest, guest, go go go go go go, go.
go go.
not guessed.
go go.
toasted susie is my ice cream.
two plays ladies'voices what happened ladies'voices and what happened were both printed originally in geography and plays.
finds a definite connection between geography, landscape, and playwriting and refers to this connection again and again in her worf.
for instance, in the autobiography of she says a landscape is such a natural arrangement for a battlefield or a play that one must write plays!
'in lectures in america, explains and so all of a sudden i began to write plays.
i remember very well the first one wrote.
i called it, what hap pened, a play, it is in geography and plays as are all the plays i wrote at that time.
i thinly and always have thought that if you write a play you ought to announce that it is a play and that is what i did.
what happened.
a play.
i had just come home from a pleasant dinner party elsewhere she tells us this dinner was given by harry and bridget gibb and i realized then as anybody can per centnow that something is always happening.
something is always happening, anybody jnows a quantity of stories of people's es that are always happening, there are always plenty for the newspapers and there are always plenty in private life.
everybody nows so many stories and what is the use of telling another story.
what is the use of telling a story since there are so many and everybody tyiows so many and tells so many.
in the country it is perfectly extraordinary how many complicated dramas go on all the time.
and everybody tyiows them, so why tell another one.
there is always a story going on.
so naturally what i wanted to do in my play was what everybody did not always now or always tell.
by everybody i do of course include myself but always i do of course include myself.
and so i wrote, what happened, a play.
then i wrote ladies'voices.
the idea in what happened, a play was without telling what happened, to mate a play the essence of what happened.
ladies voices curtain raiser ladies'voices give pleasure.
the acting two is easily lead.
leading is not in winter.
here the winter is sunny.
does that surprise you.
ladies voices together and then she came in.
very well good night.
very well good night.
mrs. cardillac.
that's silver.
you mean the sound.
yes the sound.
honest to god miss williams i do n't mean to say that i was older.
but you were.
yes i was.
i do not excuse myself.
i feel that there is no reason for passing an archduke.
you like the word.
you know very well that they all call it their house.
as christ was to lazarus so was the founder of the hill.
you really, mean it.
i do.
act yes genevieve does not know it.
what.
that we are seeing caesar.
caesar kisses.
kisses today.
caesar kisses every day.
two plays genevieve does not know that it is only in this country that she could speak as she does.
she does speak very well does n't she.
she told them that there was not the slightest intention on the part of her countrymen to eat the fish that was not caught in their country.
in this she was mistaken.
act what are ladies voices.
do you mean to believe me.
have you caught the sun.
dear me have you caught the sun.
scene now did you say they were different.
i said it made no difference.
where does it.
yes.
mr. richard sutherland.
this is a name i know.
yes.
the hotel victoria.
many words spoken to me have seemed english.
yes we do hear one another and yet what are called voices the best decision in telling of balls.
masked balls.
yes masked balls.
poor augustine.
what happened a five act play act i one.
loud and no cataract.
not any nuisance is depressing.
five.
a single sum four and five together and one, not any sun a clear signal and an exchange.
silence is in blessing and chasing and coincidences being ripe.
a simple melancholy clearly precious and on the surface and surrounded and mixed strangely.
a vegetable window and clearly most clearly an exchange in parts and complete.
a tiger a rapt and surrounded overcoat securely arranged with spots old enough to be thought useful and witty quite witty in a secret and in a blinding flurry.
length what is length when silence is so windowful.
what is the use of a sore if there is no joint and no toady and no tag and not even an eraser.
what is the commonest exchange between more laughing and most.
carelessness is carelessness and a cake well a cake is a powder, it is very likely to be powder, it is very likely to be much worse.
a shutter and only shutter and christmas, quite christmas, an only shutter and a target a whole color in every centre and shooting real shooting and what can hear, that can hear that which makes such an establishment provided with what is provisionary.
two.
urgent action is not in graciousness it is not in clocks it is not in water wheels.
it is the same so essentially, it is a worry a real worry.
a silence a whole waste of a desert spoon, a whole waste of any little shaving, a whole waste altogether open.
two plays two.
paralysis why is paralysis a syllable why is it not more ely.
a special sense a very special sense is ludicrous.
three.
suggesting a sage brush with a turkey and also something abominable is not the only pain there is in so much provoking.
there is even more.
to begin a lecture is a strange way of taking dirty apple blossoms and is there more use in water, certainly there is if there is going to be fishing, enough water would make desert and even prunes, it would make nothing throw any shade because after all is there not more practical humor in a series of photographs and also in a treacherous sculpture.
any hurry any little hurry has so much subsistence, it has and choosing, it has.
act ii three.
four and nobody wounded, five and nobody flourishing, six and nobody talkative, eight and nobody sensible.
one and a left hand lift that is so heavy that there is no way of pronouncing perfectly.
a point of accuracy, a point of a strange stove, a point that is so sober that the reason left is all the chance of swelling.
the same three.
a wide oak a wide enough oak, a very wide cake, a lightning cooky, a single wide open and exchanged box filled with the same little sac that shines.
the best the only better and more left footed stranger.
the very kindness there is in all lemons oranges apples pears and potatoes.
the same three.
a same frame a sadder portal, a singular gate and a bracketed mischance.
a rich market where there is no memory of more moon than there is everywhere and yet where strangely there is apparel and a whole set.
a connection, a clam cup connection, a survey, a ticket and a return to laying over.
what happened act two.
a cut, a cut is not a slice, what is the occasion for representing a cut and a slice.
what is the occasion for all that.
a cut is a slice, a cut is the same slice.
the reason that a cut is a slice is that if there is no hurry any time is just as useful.
four.
a cut and a slice is there any question when a cut and a slice are just the same.
a cut and a slice has no particular exchange it has such a strange exception to all that which is different.
a cut and only slice, only a cut and only a slice, the remains of a taste may remain and tasting is accurate.
a cut and an occasion, a slice and a substitute a single hurry and a circumstance that shows that, all this is so reasonable when every thing is clear.
one all alone with the best reception, all alone with more than the best reception, all alone with a paragraph and something that is worth something, worth almost anything, worth the best example there is of a little occasional archbishop.
this which is so clean is precious little when there is no bath water.
a long time a very long time there is no use in an obstacle that is original and has a source.
act four and four more a birthday, what is a birthday, a birthday is a speech, it is a second time when there is tobacco, it is only one time when there is poison.
it is more than one time when the occasion which shows an occasional sharp separation is unanimous.
a blanket, what is a blanket, a blanket is so speedy that heat much heat is hotter and cooler, very much cooler almost more nearly cooler than at any other time often.
a blame what is a blame, a blame is what arises and cautions each one to be calm and an ocean and a masterpiece.
a clever saucer, what is a clever saucer, a clever saucer is very likely two plays practiced and even has toes, it has tiny things to shake and really if it were not for a delicate blue color would there be any reason for every one to differ.
the objection and the perfect central table, the sorrow in borrowing and the hurry in a nervous feeling, the question is it really a plague, is it really an oleander, is it really saffron in color, the surmountable appetite which shows inclination to be warmer, the safety in a match and the safety in a little piece of splinter, the real reason why cocoa is cheaper, the same use for bread as for any breathing that is softer, the lecture and the surrounding large white soft unequal and spread out sale of more and still less is no better, all this makes one regard in a season, one hat in a curtain that in rising higher, one landing and many many more, and many more many more many many more.
a regret a single regret makes a door way.
what is a door way, a door way is a photograph.
what is a photograph a photograph is a sight and a sight is always a sight of something.
very likely there is a photograph that gives color if there is then there is that color that does not change any more than it did when there was much more use for photography.
miss furr and miss skeene from geography and plays,.
this charming portrait of two ladies became celebrated after it was reprinted in vanity fair, july.
has identified the subjects as miss mars and miss squires, early habituees of her studio, then at rue de fleurus, paris.
helen furr had quite a pleasant home.
mrs. furr was quite a pleasant woman.
mr. furr was quite a pleasant man.
helen furr had quite a pleasant voice a voice quite worth cultivating.
georgine skeene went away to stay two months with her brother.
helen furr did not go then to stay with her father and her mother.
helen furr stayed there where they had been regularly ing the two of them and she would then certainly not be lonesome, she would go on being she did go on being she was not any more but she was longer every day than they had been being when they were together being she was then quite exactly the same way.
she learned a few more little ways of being in being she was quite and in the same way, the same way she had been and she was a little longer in the day, more of each day she was she was longer every day than when the two of them had been being she was quite in the way they had been, quite in the same way.
she was not lonesome then, she was not at all feeling any need of having georgine skeene.
she was not astonished at this thing.
she would have been a little astonished by this thing but she knew she was not astonished at anything and so she was not astonished at this thing not astonished at not feeling any need of having georgine skeene.
helen furr had quite a completely pleasant voice and it was quite well enough cultivated and she could use it and she did use it but then there was not any way of working at cultivating a completely pleasant voice when it has become a quite completely well enough cultivated one, and there was not much use in using it when one was not wanting it to be helping to make one a one.
helen furr was not needing using her voice to be a one.
she was then and sometimes she used her voice and she was not using it very often.
it was quite completely enough cultivated and it was quite completely a pleasant one and she did not use it very often.
she was then, she was quite exactly as as she had been, she was a little longer in the day than she had been.
she was exactly the same way.
she was never tired of being that way.
she had learned very many little ways to use in being very miss furr and miss skeene many were telling about using other ways in being she was enough, she was always exactly the same way, she was always learning little things to use in being, she was telling about using other ways in being, she was telling about learning other ways in being, she was learning other ways in being, she would be using other ways in being, she would always be in the same way, when georgine skeene was there not so long each day as when georgine skeene was away.
she came to using many ways in being, she came to use every way in being she went on ing where many were cultivating something and she was, she had used every way to be they did nottogether then helen furr and georgine skeene.
helen furr ed there the longer where they had been ing regularly together.
then neither of them were ing there any longer.
helen furr was ing somewhere else then and telling some about being and she was then and she was ing quite regularly then.
she was regularly then.
she was quite regular in being then.
she remembered all the little ways of being she used all the little ways of being she was quite regularly she told many then the way of being, she taught very many then little ways they could use in being she was ing very well, she was then, she went on ing then, she was regular in being, she always was ing very well and was very well and was telling about little ways one could be learning to use in being, and later was telling them quite often, telling them again and again.
a sweet tail gypsies life so many pieces in geography and plays, , this little descriptive essay is the result of a journey to spain by and curves.
hold in the coat.
hold back ladders and a creation and nearly sudden extra coppery ages with colors and a clean voice gyp hoarse.
hold in that curl with a good man.
hold in cheese.
hold in cheese.
hold in cheese.
a cool brake, a cool brake not a success not a resound a re sound and a little pan with a yell oh yes so yet change, famous, a green a green colored oak, a handsome excursion, a really handsome log, a regulation to exchange oars, a regulation or more press more precise cold pieces, more yet in the teeth within the teeth.
this is the sun in.
this is the lamb of the lantern with chalk.
with chalk a shadow shall be a sneeze in a tooth in a tin tooth, a turned past, a turned little corset, a little tuck in a pink look and with a pin in, a pin in.
win lake, eat splashes dig salt change benches.
win lake eat splashes dig salt change benches.
can in.
come a little cheese.
come a little cheese and same same tall sun with a little thing to team, team now and a bass a whole some gurgle, little tin, little tin soak, soak why sunday, supreme measure.
no nice burst, no nice burst sourly.
suppose a butter glass is clean and there is a bow suppose it lest the bounding ocean and a medium sized bloat in the cunning little servant handkerchief is in between.
cuts when cuts when ten, lie on this, singling wrist tending, singling the pin.
lie on this, show sup the boon that nick the basting thread thinly and night night gown and pit wet kit.
loom down the thorough narrow.
it is not cuddle and molest change.
it is not molest principal necessary argue not that it, not that in life walk collect piece.
colored tall bills with little no pitch and dark white dark with rubbed splendid select pistons with black powdered cheese and shirts and night a sweet tail gowns and ready very ready sold glass butts.
the simple real ball with a cold glass and no more seat than yesterday together together with lime, lime water.
this is no sight, no sight suddenly, no supper with a heat which makes morgan, morgan must be so.
if it is and more that call life with show cared beard with a belt and no pin when shine see the coat and left and last with all it was to be there why show could pause with such read mice call it why those old sea cat with a shining not mouth hole if it is a white call with the inch of that sort could see that tie west with loaf which is not the copper lasting with a bright retract lamp call negligence utterly soothing in the coiling remain collapse of this which by there a called which never see and hammer by which basket all that glance zest.
cut in simple cake simple cake, relike a gentle coat, seal it, seal it blessing and that means gracious not gracious suddenly with spoons and flavor but all the same active.
neglect a pink white neglect it for blooming on a thin piece of steady slit poplars and really all the chance is in deriding cocoanuts real cocoanuts with strawberry tunes and little ice cakes with feeding feathers and peculiar relations of nothing which is more blessed than replies.
replies sudden and no lard no lard at all to show port and colors and please little pears that is to say six.
it can no sail to key pap change and put has can we see call bet.
show leave i cup the fanned best same so that if then sad sole is more, more not, and after shown so papered with that in instep lasting pheasant.
pheasant enough.
call africa, call african cod er, loading a bag with news and little pipes restlessly so that with in between chance white cases are muddy and show a little tint, all of it.
please coat.
way lay to be set in the coat and the bust.
the right hold is went hole piece cageous him.
he had his sisters.
like message copowder and sashes sashes, like pedal sashes and so sashes, like pedal causes and so sashes, and pedal cause killed surgeon in six safest six which, pedal sashes.
peel sashes not what then called and in when the crest no mandarining clothes brush often.
no might of it could sudden best set.
best set boar.
rest sing a mean old polly case with boats and a little scissors nicely sore.
all the blands are with a coat and more is coach with commas.
a little arrangement is manufactured by a shoal and little salt sweats are gypsies to grow grow with ice and let it seat seat more than shadows which have butter.
suppose, suppose a tremble, a ham, a little mouth told to wheeze more and a religion a reign of a pea racket that makes a load register and passes best.
kindness necessarily swims in a bottom with a razor which needs powder powder that makes a top be in the middle and necessarily not indicate a kind of collection, a collection of more of more gilt and mostly blue pipes pipes which are bound bound with old oil and mustard exact mustard which means that yellow is obtained.
gracious oh my cold under fur, under no rescued reading.
able there to ball bawl able to call and seat a tin a tin whip with a collar.
the, least license is in the eyes which make strange the less sighed hole which is nodded and leaves the bent tender.
all the class is sursful.
it makes medium and egg light and not really so much.
catch white color white sober, call white sold sacks, crimp white colored harness crimp it with ferocious white saffron hides, hurry up cut clothes with calm calm bright capable engines of pink and choice and press.
peas nuts are shiny with recent stutter which makes cram and mast a mast hoe, luck.
a winter sing, take thee to stay, say mountain to me and alabaster.
curious alright.
wheel is not on a donkey and never never.
a little piece of fly that makes a ling a shoulder a relief to pages.
please putter sane show a pronounce, leave sold gats, less it measles.
a little thin a little thin told told not which.
rest stead.
appeal, a peal, laugh, hurry merry, good in night, rest stole.
rest stole to bestow candle electricity in surface.
the best header is nearly peek.
come in to sun with holy pin and have the petticoat to say the day, the last oh high this that.
no so.
little tree, bold up and shut with strings the piney and little weights little weights what.
cold a packet must soak sheer land, leave it a yield so that nuts nuts are below when when cap bags are nearly believe me it is nice and quiet i thank you.
pluck howard in the collided cheese put and not narrow.
little in the toilet tram.
seize noes when the behaved ties are narrowed to little finances and a sweet tail large garden chambers with soled more saddled heels and monkeys and tacts and little limber shading with real old powder and chest wides and left clothes and nearly all heights hats which are so whiled and reactive with moist most leaves it sell to apart.
sober eat it, a little way to seat.
the two whiskers.
all chime.
so be eat hit.
no case the lines are the twist of a lost last piece of flannel.
this beam in which bought not a hill than store when stone in the point way black what slate piece by all stone dust chancely.
this wee did shut, about.
a land paul with a lea in and no bell no bell pose with counters and a strike a strike to poison.
does a prison make a window net does it show plates and little coats and a dear noise.
this is a cape.
a real tall is a bat, the rest is nice west, the rest in, be bine with a haul a haul not.
knot not knot.
a vest a voice vest.
be able to shave, shave little pills in steady, steady three, coal pied this to hum with him, believe hit believe hit it.
is it necessary that actuality is tempered and neglect is rolled.
a little piece.
the blame which makes a coping out of a cellar and into a curtain and behind behind a frontyard is that then.
please dust.
it is so thick and thin and thin, it is thick.
it is thick, thin.
a spoon, thick ahead and matches, matches wear sacks.
stew, stew, than.
four saints in three acts first published in transition, june, , this lyric drama was later included in operas and plays plain edition, paris, , and still later in a volume by itself published by random house, in.
as an opera with virgil thomson's music it was first performed at the avery memorial, wadsworth atheneum, in hartford, connecticut, february.
on february oth of the same year it began a four weeds'run at the forty fourth street theatre in new york since torn down to permit the enlargement of the times plant and on april yth, after a lapse of three weels it resumed for a short run at the empire theatre.
in chicago, beginning november, , five performances were given at the auditorium theatre.
, , and i flew to chicago the ladies making their virgin flight for this event and sat in a box together for the opening night.
the opera, in concert form, was performed at the museum of modern art, may, igf, and at town hall may jth of the same year.
it was heard over the radio in.
i thinl the original negro cast officiated practically intact at all these performances.
in four saints, informs us in one of her lectures in america, i made the saints the landscape.
magpies are in the landscape that is they are in the sy of a landscape, they are and white and they are in the landscape in bilignin and in spain, especially in avila.
when they are in the sfy they do something i have never seen any other bird do they hold themselves up and down and lool flat against the sky.
a very famous french inventor of things that have to do with stabilisation in aviation told me that what i told him magpies did could not be done by any bird but anyway whether the magpies at avila do do it or do not at least they lool as if they do do it.
they loo exactly like the birds in the annunciation pictures the bird which is the holy ghost and rests flat against the side sjy very high.
there were magpies in my landscape and there were scarecrows.
the scarecrows on the ground are the same thing as the magpies in they are a part of the landscape.
they the magpies may tell their story if they and you lie or even if i lie but stories are only stories but that they stay in the air is not a story but a landscape.
that scarecrows stay on the ground is the same thing it could be a story but it is a piece of the landscape.
to know to know to love her so.
* tallow lamp the monks with hairy fingers opened the book september.
now jason pelts with snow the newly sprouting grain.
the forest gave you a necklace of hands.
so dead you walk the rope.
to your hair a darker blue is imparted i speak of love.
shells i speak and light clouds, and a boat buds in the rain.
a little stallion gallops across the leafing fingers black the gate leaps open, i sing how did wehere?
your hand full of hours your hand full of hours, you came to me and i said your hair is not brown.
so you lifted it lightly on to the scales of grief it weighed more than i. on ships they come to you and make it their cargo, then put it on sale in the markets of lust you smile at me from the depth, i weep at you from the scale that stays light.
i weep your hair is not brown, they offer brine from the sea and you give them curls.
you whisper they're filling the world with me now, in your heart i'm a hollow way still!
you say lay the leafage of years beside you it's time you came closer and kissed me!
the leafage of years is brown, your hair is not brown.
aspen tree.
aspen tree, your leaves glance white into the dark.
my mother's hair was never white.
dandelion, so green is the ukraine.
my yellow haired mother did not come home.
rain cloud, above the well do you hover?
my quiet mother weeps for everyone.
round star, you wind the golden loop.
my mother's heart was ripped by lead.
oaken door, who lifted you off your hinges?
my gentle mother cannot return.
sandfrom theurns green as mould is the house of.
before each of the blowing gates your beheaded minstrel turns blue.
for you he beats his drum made of moss and of harsh pubic hair with a festering toe in the sand he traces your eyebrow.
longer he draws it than ever it was, and the red of your up.
you fill up the urns here and nourish your heart.
in the cherry tree's branches.
in the cherry tree's branches a crunching of iron shoes.
summer foams up for you out of helmets.
the blackish cuckoo with diamond spurs draws his image on to the gates of the sky.
bareheaded the horseman looms up from the foliage.
on his shield he bears the dusk of your smile, nailed on to the enemy's kerchief of steel.
the garden of dreamers was promised to him, and spears he keeps ready, so that the rose will climb.
but unshod through the air comes he who resembles you most iron shoes buckled on to his delicate hands, he sleeps through the battle and summer.
it's for him that the cherry bleeds.
memory offrance together with me recall the sky of paris, that giant mesh colchicum we went shopping for hearts at the flower girl's booth they were blue and they opened up in the water.
it began to rain in our room, and our neighbour came in, monsieur le songe, a lean little man.
we played cards, i lost the irises of my eyes you lent me your hair, i lost it, he struck us down.
he left by the door, the rain followed him out.
we were dead and were able to breathe.
chanson of a lady in the shade when the silent one comes and beheads the tulips who wins?
who loses?
who walks to the window?
who's the first to speak her name?
he is one who wears my hair, he wears it much as one wears the dead on one's hands.
he wears it much as the sky wore my hair that year when i loved.
he wears it like that out of vanity.
that one wins.
does n't lose.
does n't walk to the window.
he does not speak her name.
he is one who has my eyes.
he's had them since gates have shut.
he wears them like rings on his fingers.
he wears them like shards of sapphire and lust since the autumn he has been my brother he's counting the days and the nights.
that one wins.
does n't lose.
does n't walk to the window.
he's the last to speak her name.
he's one who has what i said.
he carries it under his arm like a bundle.
he carries it as the clock carries its worst hour.
from threshold to threshold he carries it, never throws it away.
that one does n't win.
he loses.
he walks to the window.
he's the first to speak her name.
with tulips that one's beheaded.
night ray most brightly of all burned the hair of my evening loved one to her i send the coffin of lightest wood.
waves billow round it as round the bed of our dream in rome it wears a white wig as i do and speaks hoarsely it talks as i do when i grant admittance to hearts.
it knows a french song about love, i sang it in autumn when i stopped as a tourist in lateland and wrote my letters to morning.
a fine boat is that coffin carved in the coppice of feelings.
i too drift in it downbloodstream, younger still than your eye.
now you are young as a bird dropped dead in march snow, now it comes to you, sings you its love song from france.
you are light you will sleep through my spring till it's over.
i am lighter in front of strangers i sing.
the yearsfrom you to me your hair waves once more when i weep.
with the blue of your eyes you lay the table of love a bed between summer and autumn.
we drink what somebody brewed neither i nor you nor a third we lap up some empty and last thing.
we watch ourselves in the deep sea's mirrors and faster pass food to the other the night is the night, it begins with the morning, beside you it lays me down.
corona autumn eats its leaf out of my hand we are friends.
from the nuts we shell time and we teach it to walk then time returns to the shell.
in the mirror it's sunday, in dream there is room for sleeping, our mouths speak the truth.
my eye moves down to the sex of my loved one we look at each other, we exchange dark words, we love each other like poppy and recollection, we sleep like wine in the conches, like the sea in the moon's blood ray.
we stand by the window embracing, and people look up from the street it is time they knew!
it is time the stone made an effort to flower, time unrest had a beating heart.
it is time it were time.
it is time.
fugue ofdeath black milk of daybreak we drink it at nightfall we drink it at noon in the morning we drink it at night drink it and drink it we are digging a grave in the sky it is ample to lie there a man in the house he plays with the serpents he writes he writes when the night falls to germany your golden hair margarete he writes it and walks from the house the stars glitter he whistles his dogs up he whistles his jews out and orders a grave to be dug in the earth he commands us strike up for the dance black milk of daybreak we drink you at night we drink in the mornings at noon we drink you at nightfall drink you and drink you a man in the house he plays with the serpents he writes he writes when the night falls to germany your golden hair margarete your ashen hair shulamith we are digging a grave in the sky it is ample to lie there he shouts stab deeper in earth you there and you others you sing and you play he grabs at the iron in his belt and swings it and blue are his eyes stab deeper your spades you there and you others play on for the dancing black milk of daybreak we drink you at nightfall we drink you at noon in the mornings we drink you at nightfall drink you and drink you a man in the house your golden hair margarete your ashen hair shulamith he plays with the serpents he shouts play sweeter death's music death comes as a master from germany he shouts stroke darker the strings and as smoke you shall climb to the sky then you'll have a grave in the clouds it is ample to lie there black milk of daybreak we drink you at night we drink you at noon death comes as a master from germany we drink you at nightfall and morning we drink you and drink you a master from germany death comes with eyes that are blue with a bullet of lead he will hit in the mark he will hit you a man in the house your golden hair margarete he hunts us down with his dogs in the sky he gives us a grave he plays with the serpents and dreams death comes as a master from germany your golden hair margarete your ashen hair shulamith.
crystal not on my lips look for your mouth, not in front of the gate for the stranger, not in the eye for the tear.
seven nights higher red makes for red, seven hearts deeper the hand knocks on the gate, seven roses later the fountain begins to plash.
thejugs at the long tables of time thejugs of god carouse.
they drink empty the eyes that see and the eyes of the blind, the hearts of the mastering shadows, the hollow cheek of the evening.
they are the most mighty carousers they carry empty and full alike to their mouths and do not flow over like you or like me.
from von schwelle zu schwelle front darkness to darkness you opened your eyes saw my darkness e. i see through it down to the bed there too it is mine and es.
is that a ferry?
which, crossing, awakens?
whose light can it be at my heels for a boatman to appear?
with a variable key with a variable key you unlock the house in which drifts the snow ofthat left unspoken.
always what key you choose depends on the blood that spurts from your eye or your mouth or your ear, you vary the key, you vary the word that is free to drift with the flakes.
what snowball will form round the word depends on the wind that rebuffs you.
in memoriam paul eluard lay these words into the dead man's grave which he spoke in order to e. pillow his head amid them, let him feel the tongues of longing, the tongs.
lay that word on the dead man's eyelids which he refused to him who addressed him as thou, the word his leaping heart blood passed by when a hand as bare as his own knotted him who addressed him as thou into the trees of the future.
lay this word on his eyelids perhaps his eye, still blue, will assume a second, more alien blueness, and he who addressed him as thou will dream with him we.
shibboleth together with my stones grown big with weeping behind the bars, they dragged me out into the middle of the market, that place where the flag unfurls to which i swore no kind of allegiance.
flute, double flute of night remember the dark twin redness of vienna and madrid.
set your flag at half mast, memory.
at half mast today and for ever, heart here too reveal what you are, here, in the midst of the market.
call the shibboleth, call it out into your alien homeland february.
no pasaran.
unicorn you know about the stones, i you know about the water come, i shall lead you away to the voices of estremadura.
speak, you also speak, you also, speak as the last, have your say.
speak but keep yes and no unsplit, and give your say this meaning give it the shade.
give it shade enough, give it as much as you know has been dealt out between midday and midday and midnight, look around look how it all leaps ae where death is!
ae!
he speaks truly who speaks the shade.
but now shrinks the place where you stand where now, stripped by shade, will you go?
upward.
grope your way up.
thinner you grow, less knowable, finer.
finer a thread by which it wants to be lowered, the star to float further down, down below where it sees itself gutter on sand dunes of wandering words.
from sprachgitter homecoming snowfall, denser and denser, dove coloured as yesterday, snowfall, as if even now you were sleeping.
white, stacked into distance.
above it, endless, the sleigh track of the lost.
below, hidden, presses up what so hurts the eyes, hill upon hill, invisible.
on each, fetched home into its today, an i slipped away into dumbness wooden, a post.
there a feeling, blown across by the ice wind attaching its dove its snow coloured cloth as a flag.
below led home into the sociable talk of our slow eyes.
led home, syllable after syllable, shared out among the dayblind dice, for which the playing hand reaches out, large, awakening.
and the too much of my speaking heaped up round the little crystal dressed in the style of your silence.
tenebrae we are near, lord, near and at hand.
handled already, lord, clawed and clawing as though the body of each us were your body, lord.
pray, lord, pray to us, we are near.
wind awry we went there, went there to bend over hollow and ditch.
to be watered we went there, lord.
it was blood, it was what you shed, lord.
it gleamed.
it cast your image into our eyes, lord.
our eyes and our mouths are open and empty, lord.
we have drunk, lord.
the blood and the image that was in the blood, lord.
pray, lord.
we are near.
flower the stone.
the stone in the air, which i followed.
your eye, as blind as the stone.
we were hands, we baled the darkness empty, we found the word that ascended summer flower.
flower a blind man's word.
your eye and mine they see to water.
growth.
heart wall upon heart wall adds petals to it.
one more word like this word, and the hammers will swing over open ground.
language mesh eye's roundness between the bars.
vibratile monad eyelid propels itself upward, releases a glance.
iris, swimmer, dreamless and dreary the sky, heart grey, must be near.
athwart, in the iron holder, the smoking splinter.
by its sense of light you divine the soul.
if i were like you.
if you were like me.
did we not stand under one trade wind?
we are strangers.
the flagstones.
on them, close to each other, the two heart grey puddles two mouthsfull of silence, night pebbles and scree.
and a shard note, thin, as the hour's message of comfort.
exchange of eyes, finite, at the wrong time image constant, lignified the retina the sign of eternity.
conceivable up there, in the cosmic network of rails, like stars, the red of two mouths.
audible before dawn?
a stone that made the other its target.
mattere de bretagne gorselight, yellow, the slopes fester to heaven, the thorn woos the wound, bells ring in there, it is evening, the void rolls its ocean to worship, the sail of blood is aiming for you.
dry, stranded the stream bed behind you, reed choked its moment, above by the star, the milky creeks gossip in mud, stone borer below, bunched, gapes at blue, a shrub of transience, beautiful, admits welcoming your memory.
did you know me, hands?
i took the forked way you showed, my mouth spat its macadam, i walked, my time, ambling patrols, cast its shadow did you know me?
hands, the wound wooed by the thorn, bells ring, hands, the void, its oceans, hands, in the gorselight, the sail of blood is aiming for you.
you you teach you teach your hands you teach your hands you teach you teach your hands sleep all souls what did i do?
seminated the night, as though there could be others, more nocturnal than this one.
bird flight, stone flight, a thousand described routes.
glances, purloined and plucked.
the sea, tasted, drunk away, dreamed away.
an hour soul eclipsed.
the next, an autumn light, offered up to a blind feeling which came that way.
others, many, with no place but their own heavy centres glimpsed and avoided.
foundlings, stars, black, full of language named after an oath which silence annulled.
and once when?
that too is forgotten felt the barb where my pulse dared the counter beat.
draft of a landscape circular graves, below.
in four beat time the year's pace on the steep steps around them.
lavas, basalts, glowing stone from the world's heart.
wellspring tuff where light grew for us, before our breath.
oilgreen, soaked with sea spray the impassable hour.
toward the centre, grey, a stone saddle, and on it, dented and charred, the animal forehead with its radiant blaze.
an eye, open hours, may coloured, cool.
the no more to be named, hot, audible in the mouth.
no one's voice, again.
aching depth of the eyeball the lid does not stand in its way, the lash does not count what goes in.
the tear, half, the sharper lens, movable, brings the images home to you.
the straitening driven into the terrain with the unmistakable track grass, written asunder.
the stones, white, with the shadows of grassblades do not read any more look!
do not look any more go!
go, your hour has no sisters, you are are at home.
a wheel, slow, rolls out of itself, the spokes climb, climb on a blackish field, the night needs no stars, nowhere does anyone ask after you.
does anyone ask after the place where they lay, it has a name it has none.
they did not lie there.
something lay between them.
they did not see through it.
did not see, no, spoke of nowhere words.
none awoke, sleep came over them.
came, came.
nowhere anyone asks it is i, i, i lay between you, i was open, was audible, ticked at you, your breathing obeyed, it is i still, but then you are asleep.
it is i still years, years, years, a finger feels down and up, feels around seams, palpable, here it is split wide open, here it grew together again who covered it up?
covered it up who?
came, came.
came a word, came, came through the night, wanted to shine, wanted to shine.
ash.
ash, ash.
night.
night and night.
go to the eye, the moist one.
go to the eye, gales.
gales, from the beginning of time, whirl of particles, the other, you know it, though, we read it in the book, was opinion.
was, was opinion.
how did we touch each other each other with these hands?
there was written too, that.
where?
we put a silence over it, stilled with poison, great, a green the moist one silence, a sepal, an idea of vegetation attached to it green, yes, attached, yes, under a crafty sky.
of, yes, vegetation.
yes.
gales, whirl of particles, there was time left, time to try it out with the stone it was hospitable, it did not cut in.
how lucky we were grainy, grainy and stringy.
stalky, dense grapy and radiant kidneyish, flattish and lumpy loose, tangled he, it did not cut in, it spoke, willingly spoke to dry eyes, before closing them, spoke, spoke.
was, was.
we would not let go, stood in the midst, a porous edifice, and it came.
came at us, came through us, patched invisibly, patched away at the last membrane and the world, a millicrystal, shot up, shot up.
nights, demixed.
circles, green or blue, scarlet squares the world puts its inmost reserves into the game with the new hours.
circles, red or black, bright squares, no flight shadow, no measuring table, no smoke soul ascends or joins in.
at owl's flight, near the petrified scabs, ascends and joins in shot up, shot up.
then near our fled hands, in the latest rejection, above the rifle range near the buried wall visible, once more the grooves, the choirs, at that time, the psalms.
ho, so there are temples yet.
a star probably still has light.
nothing, nothing is lost.
ho at owl's flight, here, the conversations, day grey, of the water level traces.
•day grey, of driven into the terrain the water level traces with the unmistakable track grass, grass, written asunder.
from die niemandsrose there was earth there was earth inside them, and they dug.
they dug and they dug, so their day went by for them, their night.
and they did not praise god who, so they heard, wanted all this, who, so they heard, knew all this.
they dug and heard nothing more they did not grow wise, invented no song, thought up for themselves no language, they dug.
there came a stillness, and there came a storm, and all the oceans came.
i dig, you dig, and the worm digs too, and that singing out there says they dig.
ohone, none, no one, you where did the way lead when it led nowhere?
ohyou dig and i dig, and i dig towards you, and on our finger the ring awakes.
zürich, the stork inn fornelly sachs of too much was our talk, of too little.
of the you and you again, of how clarity troubles, of jewishness, of your god.
of that.
on the day of an ascension, the minster stood over there, it sent some gold across the water.
of your god was our talk, i spoke against him, i let the heart that i had hope for his highest, death rattled, his quarrelling word, your eye looked on, looked away, your mouth spoke its way to the eye, and i heard we do n't know, you know, we dont know, do we?
, what counts.
so many constellations so many constellations that are held out to us.
i was, when i looked at you when?
outside by the other worlds.
ohthese ways, galactic.
this hour, that weighed nights over for us into the burden of our names.
it is, know, not true that we ed, there moved, blindly, no more than a breath between there and not there, and at times our eyes whirred comet like toward things extinguished, in chasms, and where they had burnt out, splendid with teats, stood time on which already grew up and down and away all that is or was or will be, i know.
i know and you know, we knew, we did not know, we were there, after all, and not there and at times when only the void stood between us we got all the way to each other.
dumb autumn smells dumb autumn smells.
the marguerite, unbroken, passed between home and chasm through your memory.
a strange lostness was palpably present, almost you would have ed.
psalm no one moulds us again out of earth and clay, no one conjures our dust.
no one.
praised be your name, no one.
for your sake we shall flower.
towards you.
a nothing we were, are, shall remain, flowering the nothing, the no one's rose.
with our pistil soul bright with our stamen heaven ravaged our corolla red with the crimson word which we sang over, over the thorn.
alchemical silence, cooked like gold, in charred hands.
great, grey sisterly shape near like all that is lost all the names, all those names burnt with the rest.
so much ash to be blessed.
so much land won above the light, so light rings of souls.
great, grey one.
cinder less.
you, then.
you with the pale bit open bud, you in the wine flood.
us too, do n't you think, this clock dismissed?
good, i good, how your word died past us here.
silence, cooked like gold, in charred, charred hands.
fingers, insubstantial as smoke.
like crests, crest of air around great, grey one.
wakeless.
regal one«.
plashes the fountain you prayer, you blasphemy, you prayer sharp knives of my silence.
you my words being crippled together with me, you my hale ones.
and you you, you, you my later of roses daily worn true and more true how much, how much world.
how many paths.
you crutch, you wing.
we.
we shall sing the nursery rhyme, that one, do you hear, that one with the hu, with the man, with the human being, the one with the scrub and with the pair of eyes that lay ready there as tear upon tear.
radix, matrix as one speaks to stone, like you, from the chasm, from a home become a sister to me, hurled towards me, you, you that long ago you in the nothingness of a night, you in the multi night encountered, you multi you at that time, when i was not there, at that time when you paced the ploughed field, alone who, who was it, that lineage, the murdered, that looms black into the sky rod and bulb?
root.
abraham's root.
jesse's root.
no one's root ours.
yes, as one speaks to stone, as you with your hands grope into there, and into nothing, such is what is here this fertile soil too gapes, this going down is one of the crests growing wild.
afternoon with a circus and citadel in brest, before hoops of flame, in the tent where the tiger leapt, there, finite, i heard you sing there i saw you, mandelshtam.
the sky hung above the roadstead, the gull hung above the crane.
what is finite sang, what is constant you, gunboat, are called'baobab i saluted the tricolore speaking a russian word things lost were things not lost, the heart was a place made fast.
in the daytime hare's pelt sky.
even now a clear wing writes.
i too, remember, dust coloured one, arrived as a crane.
crowned out.
crowned out, spewed out into night.
under what stars!
so much grey beaten heart hammer silver.
and berenice's head of hair, here too.
i plaited, i unplaited, i plait, unplait.
i plait.
blue chasm, into you i drive the gold.
bringing that too wasted on whores and harlots i go and go.
to you, beloved.
and with curses and prayer.
and with each of the cudgels whirring over me they too fused into one, they too phallically bunched towards you, both sheaf and word.
with names, watered by every exile.
with names and seeds, with names dipped into all the calyxes that are full of your regal blood, man, into all the calyxes of the great ghetto rose, from which you look at us, immortal with so many deaths died on morning errands.
and we sang the warshawyanka with ups grown reedy, petrarca.
into tundra ears, petrarca.
and an earth rises up ours, this one.
and we'll send none of our people down to you, babel.
from atemwende to stand.
to stand, in the shadow of the scar up in the air.
to stand for no one and nothing.
unrecognized, for you alone.
with all there is room for in that, even without language, thread suns thread suns above the grey black wilderness.
a tree high thought tunes in to light's pitch there are still songs to be sung on the other side of mankind.
etched away from etched away from the ray shot wind of your language the garish talk of rubbed off experience the hundred tongued pseudo poem, the noem.
whirled clear, free your way through the human shaped snow, the penitents'snow, to the hospitable glacier rooms and tables.
deep in time's crevasse by the alveolate ice waits, a crystal of breath, your irreversible witness.
on the white philactery on the white philactery the lord of this hour was a winter creature, for his sake happened what happened my climbing mouth bit and locked, once again, looking for you, smoke trail above me, you, in the shape of a woman, you on your way to my fire thoughts in the black shingle on the other side of dividing words, through which i saw you walk, long legged and your thick lipped own head on my body ae by dint of my deadly accurate hands, tell your fingers that accompany you down into chasms even, how i knew you, how far i pushed you into the deep, where my most bitter dream slept with you from the heart, in the bed of my undetachable name.
go blind now go blind now, today eternity also is full of eyes in them drowns what helped images down the way they came, in them fades what took you out of language, lifted you out with a gesture which you allowed to happen uke the dance of the words made of autumn and silk and nothingness.
in prague that half death, suckled big with our life, lay around us, true as an ashen image we too still drank, soul crossed, two daggers, sewn on to stones of the sky, born of word blood in the night bed, bigger and bigger we grew interlaced, there was no longer a name for that which drove us one of the how many and thirty was myshadow that climbed the delusory steps towards you?
, a tower the halved one built for himself into where, a hradshin made of pure gold makers'no, bone hebrew ground into sperm ran through the hourglass through which we swam, two dreams now, chiming against time, in the squares.
once once i heard him, he was washing the world, unseen, nightlong, real, one and infinite, annihilated, ied.
light was.
salvation, from fadensonnen you were my death you were my death you i could hold when all fell away from me.
to my right to my right who?
the deathwoman.
and you, to my left, you?
the travelling sickles at the extra celestial place mime themselves whitish grey into moon swallows, into star swifts, i dip to that place and pour an urnful down you, into you, irish give me the right of way over the corn steps into your sleep, the right of way over the sleep path, the right to cut peat on the heart slope, tomorrow.
dew.
dew.
and i lay with you, you, amid garbage, a mushy moon pelted us with answers, we crumbled apart and crumbled into one again the lord broke the bread, the bread broke the lord.
powers.
dominions.
behind them, in the bamboo barking leprosy, symphonic.
vincent's posted ear has reached its destination.
think ofit think of it the bog soldier of massada teaches himself home, most inextinguishably, against every barb in the wire.
think of it the eyeless with no shape lead you free through the tumult, you grow stronger and stronger.
think of it your own hand has held this bit of habitable earth, suffered up again into life.
think of it this came towards me, name awake, hand awake, for ever, from the unburiable.
the poem associates a remote event in jewish history, the last attempt of the jews to hold out against the romans at massada in a d, which ended with the suicide of those besieged in the fortress there, with the prussian mesh concentration camps at börgermoor, whose inmates composed a song known as the borgermoor lied.
this song gave them a sense of identity, of home, and it was finally adopted even by the guards at the camp.
from lichtzwang night rode him night rode him, he had come to his senses, the orphan's tunic was his flag, no more going astray, it rode him straight it is, it is as though oranges hung in the privet, as though the so ridden had nothing on but his mesh birth order marked, secret speckled skin, can still see you i can still see you an echo that can be groped towards with antenna words, on the ridge of parting.
your face quietly shies when suddenly there is lamplike brightness inside me, just at the point where most painfully one says, never.
wide open tomorrow i bite my way into you, my silence nestles into you, we sound, alone, pastily eternity's tones drip away, croaked at by the hodiernal yesterday, we travel, largely the last amplifier received us the boosted heart pace outside in space, brought home to the axis of earth.
ioo sprinkle ochre into my eyes sprinkle ochre into my eyes no longer, youin them, be sparing, of graveside supplements, be sparing, walk up and down the stone rows on your hands, with their dream graze the debased coinage, the scale of my mesh temporal bone, at the great road fork tell yourself to the ochre three times, nine times.
leap centuries leap centuries, leap seconds, leap births, novembering, leap deaths, stacked in honeycomb troughs, 'bits on chips, the menora poem from berlin unasylumed, un archived, un welfare attended?
a e?
, reading stations in the late word, saving flame points in the sky, comb lines under fire, feelings, frost mandrelled, cold start with haemoglobin.
from schneepart the broached year the broached year with its mouldering crusts of delusion bread.
drink from my mouth.
illegibility illegibility of this world.
all things twice over.
the strong clocks justify the splitting hour, hoarsely.
you, clamped into your deepest part, climb out of yourself for ever.
hear that the axe has flowered i hear that the axe has flowered, i hear that the place ca n't be named, i hear that the bread which looks at him heals the hanged man, the bread baked for him by his wife, i hear that they call life our only refuge.
largo you of the same mind, moor wandering near one more than death sized we lie together, the timeless one teems under our breathing eyelids, the pair of blackbirds hangs beside us, under our whitely drifting companions up there, our metastases.
a leaf, treeless a leaf, treeless for bertolt brecht what times are these when a conversation is almost a crime because it includes so much made explicit?
voices, scored into the waters'green.
when the kingfisher dives, the split second whirs what stood by you appears on every shore mown down into another image.
voices from the nettles come to us on your hands.
all you can read, alone with a lamp, is your palm.
voices, night knotted, ropes on which you hang your bell.
dome yourself over, world when death's shell washes up on shore a bell will want to ring.
voices that make your heart recoil into your mother's.
voices from the hanging tree where old growth and young growth exchange rings.
voices, guttural, amid the debris, where even infinity shovels, runnels of cardio slime.
launch here the boats i manned, my son.
amidships, when an evil wind takes charge, the clamps and brackets close.
jacob's voice the tears.
tears in the eye of my brother.
one clung.
it grew.
wein there.
now, breathe so it may fall.
voices inside the ark only the mouths were saved.
hear us, sinking things.
no voice late noise, stranger to the hour, gift to your thoughts, born of wakefulness here in the final account a carpel, large as an eye, and deeply scored bleeds sap, and won't heal over.
summer report no longer crossed, the carpet of thyme is bypassed instead.
a blank line beaten through the heather.
no windfall in the storm swath.
encounters once again with scattered words, like riprap, scrubgrass, time.
with wine and being lost, with less and less of both i rode through the snow, do you read me, i rode god fari rode god near, he sang, it was our last ride over the hurdled humans.
they cowered when they heard us overhead, they wrote, they lied our neighing into one of their image ridden languages.
threesome, foursome in the dooryard, puckered mint, you pucker back, you leaf a hint.
mind this hour, it is your time, mine the mouth and yours the rhyme.
mine's the mouth, though it is still, full of words that will not fill.
some spell narrowness, some breadth, all recall the brush with death.
i make one, and we make three, one half bound, one half free.
in the dooryard, puckered mint, you pucker back, you leave a hint.
erratic evenings delve into your eye.
lip picked syllables a lovely voiceless circle help the creeping star into their ring.
the stone, once close to the temporal zones, now opens up my soul, you were in the ether with all the other scattershot suns.
hand like, shadowy, it showed up with the blades of grass right awaydownheartedness, you potter!
the hour provided clay, right away the teardrop took shape then once again it hemmed us in with its panicle of blue, this new today.
to one who stood outside the door, one evening to him i opened my word off to the ugly changeling he trudged, i saw him, to the misbegotten one, to the brother born in a muddy mercenary's boot, to the twittering homunculus with god's bloody phallus.
rebbe, i gnashed my teeth, rebbe loew cise this one's word, write the ing nothingness into this one's heart, spread this one's two crippled fingers into a healer's benediction.
this one's.
and rebbe, slam shut evening's door.
rip open morning's, re flung wood on the windpipe's path, so it goes, wing powered, true, taking off along star trails, kissed by world shards, scarred by time grains, time dust, your orphan sibling, lapilli, turned dwarf, turned tiny, turned to nothing, gone away and done away, self rhyme and so it comes back home, in its turn returns, to hover on a heartbeat, one millennium, the only hand on the dial that one soulits own soul described, that one soul numbers now.
how low could it go, my once immortal word falling into the sky pit right inside my skull, the starflower now abides with me accompanied there by spit and muck.
rhymes in the night house, breath in the dreck, eye a slave to images and yet staunch silence, rock that vaults the very devil's stairway.
pain, the syllable it gave itself into your hand a you, deathless, where all self encountered itself.
there was a vortex of voices without words, empty forms, and all went into them, mixed, unmixed and mixed again.
and numbers were interwoven with the innumerable.
a one, a thousand and what before and after was larger than itself, and smaller, and full blown, and turning back and forth into the germinating never.
forgotten things grasped at things to be forgotten, earthparts, heartparts swam, they sank and swam.
columbus, mindful of the immortelle, the mother flower, murdered mast and sail.
and all put out to sea, exploratory, free, and the wind rose faded, shed its leaves, and an ocean flowered into shape and sight, in the blacklight of a compass gone berserk.
in coffins, urns, canopies the children woke up jasper, agate and amethystnations, tribes and kinfolk, a blind let there be tied itself into the snakeheaded free coil a knot a counter knot, anti knot, tauto knot, double knot, and thousand knot at which the deep's carnival eyed litter of star martens, letter by letter, nib, nib, nibbled.
la contrescarpe break the coin of breath from the air around you and the tree anyone hope trundles up and down heart hump road must pay this tollany one at the turning point where he faces the spike of bread that has drunk up the wine of his night, misery's wine, wine of the king's wakefulness.
didn't the hands come along, holding their vigil, and the happiness deep in their cup, didn't it come?
didn't the march pipe, ciliated, come with human sound that let there be light at that time, from afar?
did the dove go astray, could her ankle band be deciphered?
all the clouding around herit was legible.
did the covey countenance it?
did they understand, and fly, when she did not return?
roof pitched slipwaythat which floats is laid down in dove keel.
the message bleeds through the bulkheads, every expiry goes overboard too soon upon arrival in berlin, via krakow, you were met at the station by a plume of smoke, tomorrow's smoke already.
under the paulownia trees you saw the knives erect, again, sharpened by distance.
there was dancing.
quatorze juillets.
et plus de neuf autres.
cross cut, copy cat, and ugly mug mimed your experiences.
wrapped in a banner, the lord appeared to the flock.
he took a pretty little souvenir a snapshot.
the auto release, that was you.
ohthis friend making.
and yet, again, you know your destinationthe one precise crystal.
floated down blackwater rapids, past the sheen of scars, are forty trees of life, completely stripped.
upstream swimmer, woman, you alone number them each, you touch them all.
gray white of sheer excavated feeling.
beach grasses scattered here inland blow sand patterns over the smoke of wellside songs.
an ear, cut off, is listening.
an eye, cut into strips, does justice to it all.
i know you you're the one who's bent so low.
you hold mei'm the riddled onein bondage.
what word could burn as witness for us two?
you're my reality.
i'm your mirage.
singable remainder trace of one whomute, remotebroke out of bounds throughsickle scripts of snow.
headed for the residue of a gaze revolving under comet brows, a tiny darkened heartmoon packs the spark it caught at large.
foreclosed mouth, report back any stirrings still not far from you.
flooding big celled sleepyard.
every partition overrun by squadrons of gray.
the letters breaking out of line, last dreamproof tugseach with a vulture claw towing a part of the still unsunken sign.
go blind at once, today eternity too is full of eyes what helped the images overcome their coming drowns there there the fire goes out of what spirited you away from language with a gesture you let happen like the waltz of two words made of pure fall, silk, and nothing.
ring narrowing day under the heavenleaf's web of veins.
across large cells of empty time, through rainfall, climbs a black blue thing the thought beetle.
words in blood bloom throng before his feelers.
at high noon, in a humming of seconds, to the round grave's shadow where i lie already in my chambered pain you comefor two days of ochre and red i spirited you off to rome with mesliding over thresholds, leveled, bright arms, only the arms that circle you are visible.
this much of a mystery i could muster still, in all's despite.
the hourglass buried in peony shadow when my thoughts finally come down pentecost lane they will inherit the reich where, trapped in sand, you still get whiffs of air.
behind the charcoal surfaces of sleep our shanty is no secret our dream had swelled, cocky, fiery, in spite of everything, and just as i drove gold nails into that morning, floating coffin perfect down the stream royally the rods shot down, divining waterwater came out!
boats tore into macrosecond memory, slime muzzled creatures drifted abroad no heaven yet had caught so many what a seine you were, really, you so torn apart!
the creatures drifted, drifted, horizons of salt rose in our eyes, far out in the abyss where a mountain was forming, my world was calling yours its own, forever.
go back and add up the shadows of all the steps to that orchidbehind five hills of boyhood from there i'win back my half word for twelve night, from there my hand would come to seize you forever.
a little disaster helps, tiny as the heartstop i put after your eye when it stammers my name.
you come too, as if over pastures, and bring along an image gamblers on the wharf.
our housekeys were crossing each other in a coat of arms, breaking the law meanwhile strangers were shooting craps with what was left of our language, our lot.
half mauled, mask faced, a corbel stone deep in the eyeslit crypt inward, upward, toward the cranial interior, where you turn heaven over and over in furrow and fold he plants his image.
it outgrows itself, it grows out.
from fists white with the truth of the beaten word wall a new brain breaks into bloom.
beautiful, never ever to be veiled, it casts the shadows of its thought.
twelve mountains, twelve brows, shape up in its steadfastness.
even sadness, your starry eyed gypsy, knows this place.
noisemakers shoot into the light it's the truth breaking the news.
over there, the riverbank is rising against us a black lit macro massthe houses resurrected!
raises its voice.
one ice thorneven we had cried out collects the clamor.
you forget you forget the words turned flint in the fist, flashes of punctuation crystallize at your wrist, out of the earth's cracked crests, pauses come charging, there, at the sacrificial bush where memory flares up, you two are taken in one breath.
crackpots, decomposing deeps.
if i were well, yes, if i were that mesh fraxinusbent which way?
outside i'be able to go along with you, bright pan of gray, you and the image growing through you only at once to be choked down, and the two of you caught in the flashy, tight drawn noose of thought.
lichtenberg's heirloom twelve napkins and a tablecloth a celestial salute to the ring of fast fading language towers inside the sign zone.
allthere's no heaven, no earth, and the memory of both is blotted out down to one blue nuthatch trusting in the mesh fraxinus he had a white comet picked up from the city ramparts.
a glottis, a voicecrack, keeps it in the universe.
red the loss of thought thread.
the wailings over it, the wailing under itwhose voice is it?
in other wordsdon't ask where i'd almost don't say where or when, again.
the sight of the songbirds at dusk, through a ring of ungraphed space, made me promise myself weapons.
the sight of weapons, hands the sight of hands, the line long since described by a flat, sharp rock, you, wave, carried it here, sharpened it, you, un losable one, gave yourself to it, you, beach sand, are the taker, partaker, you, shore grass, drift your share the line, the line we swim through, twice each millennium, tied up in each other, and not even the sea, sublime unfathomable sea that runs ae through us, can believe all the singing in our fingers.
gurgling, then vegetating quiet on the riverbanks.
one sluice left.
at the war like tower, glazed with brine, you disgorge.
ahead of you, where giant sporangia paddle, a luster sickles as if words were gagging there.
frankfurt, september blind wall space, bearded by brilliances.
a dream of a cockchafer sheds light on it.
behind that, raster of lamentations, freud's forehead opens up the tear compacted of silence breaks out in a proposition “ psychology for the last time.
the pseudo jackdaw cough caw's double is breakfasting.
the glottal stop is breaking into song.
staged happenstance, the signs all unconsigned to wind, the number multiplied, wrongs wreathed, the lord a closet fugitive, rainfaller, eyeballer, as lies turn blazing sevens, knives turn flatterers, crutches perjurors, under this world, the ninth one is already tunneling, lion, sing the human song of tooth and soul, the two hard things.
who rules?
our lifecolor beleaguered, number beset.
the clock wastes time with the comet, the knights are anglers, names cover frauds with gold leaf, the hooded jewelweed numbers the dots in the stone.
pain as a snail's shadow.
i hear it's not getting later at all.
here bogus and boring, back in the saddle, set the pace.
instead of you, there are halogen lamps.
instead of our homes, light traps, terminus temples.
diaphanous, black, the juggler's pennant is at its lowest point.
the hard won umlaut in the unword your light reflected tunnel shield for a local shade of thought.
spasms, i love you, psalms, semensmeared one, feelwalls deep in the gulch of you exult, you, eternal, uneternitized, eternitized, uneternal you, selah, into you, into you i sing the scarscore of the bone staff, red of reds, strummed far behind the pubic hair, in caves, out there, round and round the infinite non of the canon, you throw at me the nine times twined and dripping wreath of trophy teeth.
night in pau henry rocking in the royal tortoiseshell cradle immortality's number.
in its wake, it made an eleatic mocking.
later in pau in the corner of your eye, stranger, the shadow of the albigenses after the waterlooplein market, i'm singing of you to the unmatched canvas shoe, to the amen that gets hawked off with it, in the lot that's vacant for eternity singing you away so that baruch, who never cried, may grind around you his precision beveled uncomprehended, all seeing tear.
the ounce of truth in the depths of delusion two pans of the scale come by it, in turns, both at the same time, conversing.
heaved to heart height, my son, the law wins.
lyon, les archers bristling in the brick recess, the iron spike the neighboring millennium withdrawing into its otherness, unforthcoming, follows your wandering eyes.
now, the thrown dice of your glances waken your neighbor, she gets heavier and heavier.
you, too, with all your otherness, withdraw, deeper and deeper.
one string stretches its pain under you both.
oh bow, the missing target looms.
sleep pieces, wedges driven into nowhere we remain constant, steered round, the star concurs.
attached to out cast dream relics, truth comes down, a child, over the ridge.
in the valley, buzzed about by clods of earth, by spray of scree, by seeds of eye, the crutch leafs through the no that blooms crown high.
graygreens from nearby water shafts dug out by unawakened hands the depths yield up their growth without resistance, without a sound.
save it, before the stone day has blown dry the swarms of men and beasts, just as the seven reed flute mandates, in front of mouth and muzzle.
chitin sunlings, newly hatched.
armored amphibians wrap themselves up in blue prayer shawls, the sand dependent gull calls out in the affirmative, the furtive fire leaf thinks things over.
eternities dead and gone, a letter touches your still un injured fingers, a shining countenance comes somersaulting in and touches down in smells, sounds.
hothouse of an asylum emptied out by prayers pretty little saxifrage growing in the grouting a glazed look dozes through the half opened door an over aged syllable comes gangling in woken up, the blind man's cane points out its place behind the manes of the white horses.
lucky, the mummy leap over the mountain.
lonely, the giant paulownia leaf that makes a note.
big toy worlds are left lying about.
stars entirely idle.
in their control towers one hundred silver hooves hammer free the outlawed light.
on the rainsoaked rutted road, silence, the gleeman, deering his little sermon.
as if you could hear.
as if i still loved you.
white noises, bundled light lines over the table with its message in a bottle.
listening in, listening in to an ocean, drinking it in, in addition removing the veil over road weary mouths.
one secret gets mixed into the word forever.
whosoever falls therefrom rolls beneath a leafless tree.
audible inaudible all the shadow stoppers logging on at all the shadow links.
your heart manholed for the installation of feeling.
your great motherland made of prefab parts.
your milk sister a shovel.
here are the industrious mineral resources domestic here the heated up syncope here the insoluble riddle of the jubilee year here the glassed in spider altars in the facility's overarching sprawl here the half sounds still there?
, shades'palaver here the ice adjusted fears cleared for flight here the semanticallyrayed sound proof shower room, with its baroque appointments here the unscrawled wall of a cellyour life right through here, without a clock.
when i don't know, when i don't know, without you, without you, without a you, they all come, acephalic by choice, the brainless life laureates of the youless people of the lord ashrei, a word with no meaning, transtibetan, ejaculated into the helmeted ovaries of pallas athena the jewess, and when he, he, foetal, strums a carpathian not not, then the allemande starts tatting her immortal self sick song.
gigantic, trackless, tree studded hand tract, quincunx.
the branches, guided by nerves, swoop down on the already red tipped deep shadow, a snakebite before rose rise.
day freed from demons.
all breeze.
disenchanted, the powers that be sew up the stabbed lung.
blood pours back in.
in böcklemünd cemetery, the hammershine from infinity races over the shallow inscription on the front, also over you, deep brother letter.
husks of the finite, stretchable and inside each another shape takes root.
one thousand isn't yet once one.
each arrow you shoot off carries its own target into the decidedly secret tangle.
wet from the world the scrapped taboos and all the bordercrossings between them, pursuing meaning, fleeing meaning.
hush, you hag, and ferry me across the rapids.
eyeflash, aim ahead.
eyeshot's island, broken into heartscript in the quick of night, faintly lit by an ignition key.
even this seemingly starstudded altitude is overcrowded with destination driven forces.
the wide open stretch we longed for hits us head on.
eternity gets older at cerveteri the asphodels worry one another white with questions.
their ladles murmuring over stone, over stone, they spoon out soup in all the beds in all the camps from dead men's dishes.
it's late.
a spongy fetish eats the cones off the christmas tree a wish frisks after them roughened up by aphorisms of frost the window flies open we're outside the bump of being will not level out a nose heavy stunt happy cloud carries us above it and away.
come, we are cutting out mesh neurons from the rhomboid fossaemultipolar duckweed, ponds spotlit till blank from still reachable centers ten fibers drag half recognizable things.
free of dross, free of dross.
if we were blades now, drawn as of old in the pergola in paris, one eyeglow long, the arctic bull would come bounding down and crown its horns with us and gore and gore.
soul blind behind the ashes, in the sacro senseless word, the rhyme stripped one comes striding, brain mantle draped over his shoulders, auditory canal ringing with networked vowels, he decomposes the mesh rhodopsin, he composes it.
next door neighbor night.
dwarf or giant sizedit all depends on the cut in the fingerpad, on what comes out of it.
at times super eyed when biconcave a thought, out of elsewhere, comes dripping in.
the ropes, stiff with salt water this time the white mainstay can't be untied.
nearby, on the sandbar's eelgrass, in the anchor's shadow, a name makes fun of the untwinned riddle.
out of angel flesh, on insufflation day, in phallic union with the onehe the enener, he the just, made you sleep to me, sister, we stream up through the channels, up into the crown of roots parted, it lifts us high, makes us co eternal, brain at hand, a bolt of lightning sews up our skulls, the pans and all the bones not yet disseminated seed scattered in the east to be gathered in the west, co eternal, where this writing burns, after three quarters death, before the tossing and turning scrap of a soul that quakes with crown fear ever since ever began.
upholster the word hollows with panther pelt, enlarge them, furback and furforth, senseback and senseforth, give them vestibules, ventricles, valves, furnish them with wilds, parietal, and listen for the second, every time their second, second sound.
walls of speech, space inwards wound into yourself, you rave your way to the very last one.
the fogs burn off.
the heat sinks in.
four ells of earth orphaned in the storm trough, the heavenly logbook blotched with ash, michael muck mouthed, gabriel mire gagged, dough soured, in a stone flash.
naked under death leaves, their bodies both unsullied, both defaced.
pulled up on shore by the whitest root of the whitest tree.
stone of incest, rolled away.
an eye cut out from the doctor's kidney stands in for hippocrates at the cosmetic perjury.
salvos, sleep bombs, gold gas.
i'm floating, i'm floating as loud colors, heaped up in the evening, species of being come back a quarter monsoon without a place to rest, a hail of prayer before inflamed eyelidlessness.
the chimney swallow, sister to the arrow, stood at the zenith.
the one of the air clock flew at the hour hand, deep into its chime.
the shark spat out theinca.
it was land grab time in the state of humanity.
everything went around like us, with seals broken.
white, white, white like paint on pickets the laws line up and march right in.
haut malirredeemable beloved, sleep attacked, tainted by the gods your tongue is sooty, your urine black, your stool a bilious liquefaction, like myself, you use foul language you put one foot before the other, lay one hand atop the other, burrow into goatskin, consecrate my cock.
the golfball growth in the neck god's arithmetical brain teaser for the full head hairpiece, a place to test the one of a kind mesh chest pain, revealing the future, blithe as a fiber of steel.
windfield bound for winter this is where you must e, granular, like a pomegranate concealing the crust of early frost, with a darkening penstroke across the goldyellow shadow of your star spattered wing yet you were never only bird or fruit the supersonic wing you songed into being.
who stood that round?
the weather was clear.
we were drinking aboard the great wreck of the solstice, and singing the shanty of ash.
audio visual vestiges in sleep ward.
night and day, the bear polka they're re educating you you'll be a him again.
knock out the chocks of light adrift, the word belongs to dusk.
eternities swept over his face and onward.
a blaze slowly extinguished every wick and candle.
a green, out of this world, covered with down the chin of the stone, the one the orphans kept burying and reburying.
she of the freckled farewells is reading your palm faster than fast.
the blue of her irish eyes is growing through her, gain and loss at once distance, you hand of glances.
degenerate goddess spindly limbed, friend of grief, between your genuflecting legs a knowing knife turns on its axis, contravening the blood.
assembly line facility razzle dazzle in the half dark, the healing hand lay on you, remember, under the fitful flares the protective word in a pressurized helmet, a punctuation mark for fresh air vent.
soul welding, arc light.
in their cases, the lovely rhymy metal bellows are being given mesh respiration artificial.
weather hand the bog puddle shows it the way through the dark paludal wood.
luminescence.
one who, one legged, pedals the peat organ bellows gets for his efforts a bright shaft of loss.
nightsources, distant destination points on god watch, your slopes in the thou of the heart, brainmount, are brimming with foam.
we always find ourselves here, my earth mate unwashed, unpainted, in the shafthead of the beyond where a conveyor running late passes through us, through the cloud scatter, up and down, up and down inside is insurgent whistling, mischief afoot against the iridescent orb the flight shadow scars us over at level seven close to ice age two swans of felt steer around the floating stone icon twilight daubed with yellow windows, jacob's star staff over rubble terminal, time to play with matches, so far no intercurrencies, from a nice bar to an ice bar.
you with the dark slingshot, you with the stone it's a night from today.
i cast a light behind myself.
bring me down, get serious with us.
i gave a chance to your, even to your, false rung shade, i lapidated it with my true shaded, true rung selfa six point star.
today, take quiet where you wish.
trashing time's dishonored things, taking no heart, i, even i, am already going home, out into the street, into the stony many.
proverb on the wall defaced a renovated angel ceases to be a head comes into its own, sharpsighted, the astral weapon with its stock of memory salutes the lions of its thought.
the aural apparatus drives a flower.
you are its year, the world with no tongue persuades you, every sixth one knows that.
open glottis, air flow, the vowel, active with its one formant, consonant concussions, the evidence largely screened out, shield against stimuli consciousness, unoccupiable i and you, too, superveri fied the eye greedy memory greedy rolling brand name, the mesh temporal lobe intact, likewise the optic stem.
raised bog, in the shape of a watch crystal someone has time.
so many swallowtails, sick on sundew.
out of the drainage ditch a menorah of mullein stands up.
quaking bog, if you turn into turf i'll unhand the clockwork of the just.
particles, patriarchs, buried in the upheaval, spangles of ore. you make the most of things with them, as if angiosperms were having a forthright word with you.
shofar traced in limestone.
in karst caverns what is lost gains rarity, clarity.
and force and pain and what pushed and drove and held me jubilee leap years, rush of pine scent once upon a time, the unlicensed conviction there ought to be another way of saying this.
a reading branch, just one, feeding your forehead, a source of light you drowsily swallow passes through the hungry host tissue, seeing aid, layer streaked, over the moon touched backscatter probes.
macroscale microscale.
still, there are earths, earths.
cornea coated basalt, kissed by spacecraft cosmic orbital show, and yet landlocked horizons.
terrestrial, terrestrial.
a reading branch, just one, feeding the foreheadas if you were writing poems, it lands on the picture postcard that was before the bloodclot, on the threshhold of the lungsa year away, greetings from pilsen, a year around, time wild from so much quiet unfurling bon vent, bonne mer, a flapping mesh occipital lobe, a glimpse of the sea, is hoisting, right where you e, its unconquerable capital.
the cables have already been laid to happiness past and its logistical lines, and ahead in the cantonment areas where they're spraying wellness agents, mild melodic antidotes signal the final sprint through your conscience.
the splintering echo, darkened, heading for the brainstream, hesitating at the bend's levee, massive absence of windows over there, take a look, that pile of idle supplications, one buttstock blow away from the prayer silos, one and none.
nowhere, with its silken veil, dedicates its to daytime, here i can see you.
visitors can come and go, where you are sleeping unmonitored under its sand cap, your brain steers its way through the one unforfeitable oceanic day, come, i'm brightening up, come, my inbred one, my heavy one, i'm giving you to me, and you to you, too.
in the most remote of secondary senses, at the foot of the paralyzed stairway of amens existence, a phase stripped bare.
nearby, in the gutter, common wisdoms still wriggling.
sleep secreted the contour, dream fiber strengthened it.
at its single heart beaten temple ice is forming.
no book opens up.
the supernothing threw its lot with me all ice, it gives up the fight.
we're ready to trade away our mortal inmost.
no replythe thorn climbs up through the cradles.
behind the time clock, time, immune to fools, is giving itself away.
ohlittle root of a dream you hold me here undermined by blood, no longer visible to anyone, property of death.
curve a face that there may be speech, of earth, of ardor, of things with eyes, even here, where you read me blind, even here, where you refute me, to the letter.
don't sign your name between worlds, surmount the manifold of meanings, trust the tearstain, learn to e. the ante primal triad which is not god nothing is.
nothing becomes.
nothing is not.
the first triad which is god i am.
i utter the word.
i hear the word.
the abyss the word is broken up.
there is knowledge.
knowledge is relation.
these fragments are creation.
the broken manifests light.
the second triad which is god god the father and mother is concealed in generation.
god is concealed in the whirling energy of nature.
god is manifest in gathering harmony consideration the mirror of the sun and of the heart.
the third triad bearing preparing.
wavering flowing flashing.
stability begetting.
the tenth emanation the world.
have changed the formula of their progress.
these two formulae, solve et coagula, are now explained, and the universe is exhibited as the interplay between these two.
this also explains the statement in liber legis i,.
note they cause all men to worship it.
kappa epsilon phi alpha lambda eta delta peaches soft and hollow, how thou dost overcome the hard and full!
it dies, it gives itself to thee is the fruit!
be thou the bride thou shalt be the mother hereafter.
to all impressions thus.
let them not overcome thee yet let them breed within thee.
the least of the impressions, come to its perfection, is pan.
receive a thousand lovers thou shalt bear but one child.
this child shall be the heir of fate the father.
commentary delta daleth is the empress of the tarot, the letter of venus, and the title, peaches, again refers to the yoni.
the chapter is a counsel to accept all impressions it is the formula of the scarlet woman but no impression must be allowed to dominate you, only to fructify you just as the artist, seeing an object, does not worship it, but breeds a masterpiece from it.
this process is exhibited as one aspect of the great work.
the last two paragraphs may have some reference to the th aethyr see the vision and the voice.
kappa epsilon phi alpha lambda eta epsilon the battle of the ants that is not which is.
the only word is silence.
the only meaning of that word is not.
thoughts are false.
fatherhood is unity disguised as duality.
peace implies war.
power implies war.
harmony implies war.
victory implies war.
glory implies war.
foundation implies war.
